                                    Weekly Chat 04/08/2024


                                           Main Points


    -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ are in agreement and within the Propagation Zone.
    -   Gamma Hedging environments are luke-warm at-best, with purchasing support present,
        but dubiously placed.
    -   Put-selling has increased slightly for $SPY, and remains largely the same as last week
        for $QQQ.
    -   Gamma-Squeeze data show an increase in gamma squeezes, along with a return to
        negative GTM prints.
    -   LDPM-Crossovers have demonstrated a trend towards increasing bearish-ness over the
        past month; the current outlooks on the 5-, 10-, and 20-day timeframes are bearish.
    -   Overall, bearish inclinations persist and strengthen.

                                            SUMMARY



           $SPY and $QQQ transversed the week with net-negative moves and
           concurrent deepening of VoEx into the Propagation Zone.

           Alongside this growing bearish outlook from VoEx, the hedging
           environments present with seemingly little-to-do in the event of either $+
           or $-, with diffuse hedging located throughout that is poised to offer little-
           to-no support in the event of a substantial $-/IV+ move.

           Put-selling is slightly elevated, a similar situation as to last week for $QQQ.
           Comparatively this movement is minimal but temporally it represents
           more put-selling than has been observed in recent times.

           Gamma squeeze data is ramping back up with around a 40% increase in
           the number of gamma squeezes in the market. Said increase in gamma
           squeezes accompanies with another bout of negative GTM prints.

           LDPM Crossover data suggests growing bearish liquidity seeping through
           the market with 3 out of the 4 timeframes demonstrating flat-to-bearish
           outlooks for the future.

           Overall, continued bearish outlooks prevail.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           04/08/2024
                                                DETAILS




Hello, everyone!
What a curious week – for both the events inside the market, and outside.
I want to start by apologizing profusely for the interruption to the data this week. But, to be fair, if
data was going to be interrupted, it couldn’t’ve happened a more Justin-esque way.
This week, let’s take the opportunity of seeing the data post-facto and with eyes anew to saunter
a bit slower through the examination of the week prior with a bit more granularity.
So, without further a due, let’s get started!
The Week

A curious week. Even though downside was anticipated and achieved, it did so with a curious
voyage, much like last week. The journey the market took can be visualized below in the Hedging
Heatmaps for $SPY and $QQQ:




We see $SPY experienced, what can only be described as some new dance the kids are doing,
while $QQQ quickly relegated its future to a small, isolated pocket of purchasing support early in
the week.
Curiously, $SPY’s week-over-week move of -0.89% versus $QQQ’s weekly move of -0.8% mirrors
the conditions noted within the hedging environments with regards to the purchasing support:
whereas $SPY had minimal and moved a lot, $QQQ moved minimally and had a lot [of purchasing
support].
What luck!
This finding also highlights another trend that we have been observing for awhile now: discordant
IV movements on $SPY and $QQQ. Whereas $SPY’s IV increased throughout the week, $QQQ’s
decreased – a recently familiar sight!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            04/08/2024
In continuing our pursuits from last week, its noted that LDPM-Vol concurrently increased with IV
for $SPY (right). In contrast, however,
it was noted that last week, on $QQQ,
the IV and LDPM-Vol behavior was
discordant with respect to $SPY, and
discordant with respect to the
respective indicators (LDPM-Vol and
IV).
This pattern continues on $QQQ
(below), as IV and LDPM-Vol moved in
opposite directions once more.


                                                     This places both $SPY and $QQQ in a rising
                                                     LDPM-Vol         environment      (diminishing
                                                     liquidity, albeit not substantially diminished
                                                     in comparatively, and increased expectation
                                                     for future price variance), yet the options
                                                     environments on the two are quite different:
                                                     whereas on $QQQ IV is dropping, on $SPY
                                                     we find it rising!


Perhaps this discrepancy has something to do with the large IV movements noted on both
indexes, or, perhaps, the large IV movements have something to do with the discrepancy – who
can be sure! Hopefully, should the week a head not be too exciting, some more spare time can be
dedicated to investigating this.
Moving onwards from the past to the present, our mortal coils are quickly discarded, and any
remaining anamnesis of the past refocused on more present situations, like VoEx.
Let’s check out VoEx.
First up, we see $SPY’s VoEx alleviated us of our worries regarding its future direction by
experiencing the flow of time, and in doing so, promptly fell out of the Inhibition Zone.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        04/08/2024
This was a bit of a thorn-in-the-side last week as lamented on briefly: “… [unfortunately, the ] VoEx
Spike has maintained its position within the Inhibition Zone, but, as the kids say, perhaps “letting
it cook” over the next few days might be prudent.”
The benefit of “letting-it-cook” did indeed resolve our hesitations – VoEx continued to fall back
out of the Inhibition Zone, suggestive that the risk of a spontaneous (and surprise) return to BUPO
(of the Bullish variety) is minimal.
A quick look at neo-VoEx echoes these sentiments, but, perhaps, in a slightly elevated volume:




The increase in tone is mainly due to VoEx’s capitulation and entrance into the Propagation Zone.
A full-fledged bearish endorsement.
Much-the-same is noted on $QQQ, wherein VoEx is officially flirting with the Propagation Zone.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          04/08/2024
As we have seen in previous weekly chats, this flirting between VoEx-trend and the Propagation
Zone has progressed quite substantially within neo-VoEx, who finds itself already going steady
with PZ:




In combination, sum, and totality, these are full-fledged bearish prints.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    04/08/2024
With bearish intent in mind, let’s see how the market is expected to handle any potential
downwards with regards to the response from the Hedging environments.
First up, $SPY:
A vanna-unstable orientation
with selling-pressure located
$- and IV+. A gamma neutral
path exists in the $+/IV-
direction, which might be
worth keeping in mind
considering the propensity
for IV to violently move
towards gamma neutrality
the past two weeks.

Next up, $QQQ:




                                                              $QQQ presents with a some-what
                                                              stable configuration (in that, it has
                                                              selling pressure located someone
                                                              in the $- direction, at least), but this
                                                              is dependent on IV not mis-
                                                              behaving too much in the event of a
                                                              spot-down move.
                                                              Similarly to $SPY, $QQQ has a
                                                              gamma neutral zone that extends
                                                              $+ and IV-, underscoring the idea of
                                                              keeping an eye out for any
                                                              spontaneous reductions in IV.


Neither hedging environment provides robust support, and both suggest negative returns for the
week ahead via the Influence Distribution. Thus, it seems that the hedging environments are
poised to offer little resistance to any moves (other than, like, $- - /IV- - which would meet
purchasing support and $++/IV++, which would meet selling pressure).
From the shining seas of gamma neutrality, let’s turn out attention towards our put-selling friends
and see if we can’t steal an answer or two for this week’s quiz.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          04/08/2024
The put-selling seems to have started to take off somewhat. Last week, there was some interest
to see if $QQQ’s put selling would increase (it didn’t), and it seems that by-and-large, we find
ourselves in the same boat (with $SPY joining this time!).
Last week, such the small DLP showing on $QQQ did little to inspire confidence, but now with a
renewed showing on $QQQ, and a new showing on $SPY, the evidence for growing bullish
outlooks within our put-selling-friends is mounting.
But, is it more bullish than last week? Sure.

But is it overtly bullish? Ehhh.
I will wait for a few more prints before I conclude if the put-sellers are in-it-to-win-it or not.
Moving on to the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data, we see a sight for sore-eyes: an increase in
gamma squeezes! The week started with 851 gamma squeezes and quickly rose to 1,209 by
week’s end, a 42% increase1!
Perhaps worth noting that this increase coincided with another dip into negative territory for GTM:




1
    3 weeks after the negative GTM print – coincidence?????? (I hope not).

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                              04/08/2024
Thus, it would seem the expectation for continued gamma squeeze growth has been renewed,
all-the-while gamma squeezes have already started to arrive. What timing !
Moving to a not-often-talked-about-in-the-weekly-chat indicator, the LDPM Crossovers! Let’s take
a peek and get acclimated to the new layout, and see if we can glean any insights.
Below is the graph from the Macro Report with some annotations.

The main take-away is that each of the four boxes represents the price-change outlook of 1-, 5-,
10-, and 20-trading days (just like the SNAP graphs) in terms of MAD2. Their interpretations are
much the same, except now we have to account for if the overall crossover type (as indicated by
the “Indication” row [if Indication is >0.5 {Bullish} or <0.5 {Barish}] or via the text within the graph
itself) is bullish or bearish.
Once we figure that out, we just have to check to see where the purple line crosses the zero-line
for that Indication (Bullish or Bearish), and viola ! We have a market-wide, LDPM-dependent
forecast.




2
 A MAD of +1 means the price moved up and in its “average amount”. A MAD of -2 means the price moved down,
and 2x more than its average move over the defined period.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                               04/08/2024
This translates to us as: bullish 1-day forecasts (indication is 0.66 and purple line crosses the
trend-line well above the zero-line), but with bearish / near-zero outlooks for the rest of the
timeframes.
A curious exercise is always looking at the past data to see how it did, so here is the same graph
but for last month, 2024-03-08:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       04/08/2024
We see bullish inclinations abound, and indeed! $SPY moved 1.31%, and $QQQ moved 0.33%!
Reasonably in-line with the bullish-to-flat outlook provided by the 20-day LDPM CO! Neato.
So, overall, things continue to look bearish, and, arguably, on most fronts, the data appear to be
more bearish than previous.
Continued expectation for downside, with ever-more continued expectation for agonal market
volatility until it starts (presumably, reasonable and persistent downside). Until then, I will keep
an eye on VoEx to ensure no forming bull-traps are on the horizons; GTM to continue gamma
squeeze formation, and, why not, I’ll even check in on the put-sellers at some point to see if they
have anything interesting to say.
Happy Trading,
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         04/08/2024
