                                  Weekly Chat 2024-11-18


                                         Main Points



    -   VoEx-daily is rapidly moving towards the Propagation Zone for $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   The Gamma-Hedging Heatmaps show persistent, local, and proximal selling pressure
        throughout $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   SNAP graphs show negative outlooks for both $SPY and $QQQ on all timeframes.
    -   Put-selling has ceased.
    -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data show a deterioration in the future outlooks for the
        market with a growing GS count and negative GTM.
    -   LDPM and LDPS show bearish liquidity with a afore-tested organic bid separating the
        market from ~3% decline.
    -   Overall, bearish outlooks abound as the data show a high prejudice thereto.

                                         SUMMARY



          Last week, the expectation was overall bullish but with an increased
          awareness for the risk for mean-reversion. It was discussed that if this
          mean-reversion was to happen, a consequence would be an investigation
          regards its effectiveness in preventing any continued bullish performance.

          Now that we are here, we see that the bullish performance may have been
          quite apt in the completion of said inhibitive task, as the data are now
          showing robustly bearish prints throughout.

          VoEx appears to be completing a VoEx-Spike that was initiated last week;
          the Gamma-Hedging Heatmaps are largely inundated with selling
          pressure; put-selling has ceased; all SNAP graphs show negative outlooks;
          the MWGS data show a more unstable future than present; and finally,
          LDPS/M is showing an empty space separating us from a potential 3%
          downwards move.

          All-in-all, our recently forlorn bearish outlooks seem to have unsupplanted
          itself as the nascent bullish craze seems to have shifted conditions
          sufficiently back towards the red.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      11/18/2024
                                                  DETAILS




Well, hello everyone!
Last week, we left off with bullish ideations in-tact and an appreciation for the consequences of
`a slight risk of mean reversion`.
This seems to have panned out well-enough as $SPY fell about 2% along with $QQQ moving
about 3.52%. In pursuit of refinement, we can adjust these movements by their prior week’s T+5
EPR (which were 1.43%, and 1.9, respectively) to obtain their relative movements with respect to
the market’s own expectations. To this end, we arrive at 1.39 and 1.85, respectively – suggesting
that $QQQ outperformed its cousin $SPY towards the downside in both nominal and normalized
terms.
This seems to be a reasonable outcome, given the hedging heatmaps from yesterweek:




We can see at the tail-end of the week, $QQQ fell a-tad-too close to the edge of the abyss, and
found out just how much the market is attracted towards gamma neutrality. As mentioned
previously, it seems reasonable that the subsequent introduction to selling pressure pushed
$QQQ 30% further down than $SPY.
And so, this week our task is simple 1: monitor the data to ensure this downside is reasonably
expected to be of the `mean-reversion` variety (i.e.: this is still just a lil’ hiccup in the overall bullish
outlooks) so we can go about our bullish-ways, or if not, do we need to embrace for more
prolonged downside (and perhaps mean-revert ourselves back to naught but a few weeks ago!).
Let’s find out and then, if I may, I’ll be indulging in a rant!




1
    Spanish for simple.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                 11/18/2024
If you stay found you don’t have to get found

Starting as usual with VoEx, we see VoEx-daily reacting quite extensively once more!




With VoEx-daily moving rapidly out of Stability once-more, this works to extend our appreciations
from simplement2 `mean-reversion` to a more global expectation of downside (once again).
Additionally, we may not that from last week, there was concern that the VoEx-daily movement
may be that of a VoEx-Spike:
                                                   “
       VoEx-daily has violently moved into Stability while VoEx itself rests therein as well – this
     suggests low probability of a “VoEx Spike”, and simply rapid move back into bullish outlooks.
    Nonetheless, a low threat for a VoEx Spike but worth observation over the next week or so (i.e.:
                                 look at VoEx just before 2024-09-01).
                                                   “
And considering that it has now been over the next week or so, I think it is fair to say that the VoEx
performance does now resemble a VoEx Spike! Although not reїntroduced just-yet into the
Propagation Zone, should conditions persist, this eventuality seems likely within the next day or
so, thus fully completing the VoEx-spike (which brings with it anticipated downside!).
Until then, however, we can see VoEx is within stability and VoEx-daily hasn’t officially met the
propagation zone; and so, the outlook is default bullish with local downside likely, but of the
minimal-relative-share variety of potential directions – however, a close eye over the next day or
so should clear up the need for relative potential directions (i.e.: by Monday hopefully VoEx-daily
will either have moved into the P.Z. or not).

Thus – the default interpretation is bullish with local instability noted. In terms of our goal this
week, this is a point towards the `mean-variety` outlook more than the `maybe-this-will-lead-to-
more` camp. So, let’s take a look at the rest of the data.
Now – before we get ahead of ourselves, let’s take a moment to engage in a handy-dandy
paramedic trick3 and consider what things might look like if the market does get hit by a car does

2
    French for simplemente.
3
    No not that one.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           11/18/2024
       extend its outlook from a shorter-term `mean-reversion` downside to a more extended version.
       This way, we can go into the scene market with a pre-established list of things to look for and
       things to (essentially) ignore.
       To do this, let’s consider what data we might expect from our analysis that will help us distinguish
       between `this is still likely mean-reversion / local downside` versus `this is starting to look like
       prolonged downside` (one may notice that there has been an absence of inclusion so far of any
       bulls).

`Mean-Reversion`                                            Extension


VoEx: Near-term unstable VoEx with long-term stability.     Completion of VoEx Spike, movement of VoEx-daily
                                                            into the P.Z., loss of VoEx stability.

Heatmaps: Good purchasing support, preferentially Poor to little purchasing support or the introduction of
without selling pressure located IV+. $SPY and $QQQ additional selling pressure in the event of IV+. Gamma
without gamma squeeze.                              neutrality located spot-down.

Put-Selling: Actionable increase in put-selling as          Cessation or declination of activities.
compared to recent behavior.
MWGS data: Largely unaffected and should be relatively      MWGS data showing an accelerating growth curve,
stable; minimal GS growth, preferentially some loss, GTM    GS counts increasing, GTM printing negative values.
near-zero and/or positive.
LDPS/LDPM showing bullish layout.                           LDPS/LDPM suggesting downside on the daily
                                                            interval with lower-order intervals showing bearish
                                                            outlooks.



       The main idea in the creation of this table was “should things fall on the ‘this is still mean-
       reversion territory’ then we should see stability, quasi-stability or the continued movement
       towards stability, whereas, on the contrary, if things are moving towards this-might-be-more-than-
       mean-reversion then we should expect the opposite.
       So far, we can say that our first check-box (VoEx) shows `mean-reversion` as the main outlook
       still, given that VoEx is technically within stability. Perhaps on Monday we can re-check this point
       – but for now it stands that `mean-reversion` has a point in its court.
       Moving onwards and upwards to the heatmaps:




       Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         11/18/2024
Si l’on examine the hilarious heatmaps higher-up, on may very well see that there is indeed no
aide à l’achat available to our friends $SPY and $QQQ in the local, distant, proximal, circumvential,
lateral, contra-lateral or even ipsi-lateral loci – indeed there exists but aide à la selling.
Well – admittedly, there is un peu d’achat support in the IV[-] direction for both, one may very well
also see that there’s a hefty chunk of selling pressure betwixt said support and $SPY and $QQQ’s
current locations – and so – it begs the question: if there exists something that I can never get
to, does it still exist? A silly question for sure, but we live in silly times.
Additionally, the influence distributions are showing a rather pessimistic outlook as well. It should
be noted that if the market does manage to break free of its current Schwarzschild radius and
gain entry into purchasing support, then the potential upside movement would be well-
encouraged with a surge of purchasing support!
Ultimately, we move on from our heat-map excursion with a solid point to award towards dem
erweiterungslager4 bringing our overall totals to 1 for the ` Mittelwertumkehr`-lager5 and for the
`Extension Group` now also to 1.
Now, let’s indulge in some additional queries and take a peek now at the SNAP graphs! Last time
we peeked at them, we were (also) looking at judging the anticipated downside, but it was only
on the 10-day outlook (the downside of which really never came6!). But now, behold thee:




4
  I mean Germans not really that hard, I’m sure you can work it out.
5
  Exercise left to the reader.
6
  This was the downside that was recently “disrupted” and is essentially what I consider in my head to be what we
may be `mean-reverting` back to.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                      11/18/2024
                                                                         With present memory what it is, I
                                                                         can say I don’t remember a time
                                                                         since early-early DDS that all SNAP
                                                                         graphs for $SPY and $QQQ were
                                                                         solidly in the negative7.
                                                                         This shows that the SNAP algorithm
                                                                         is detecting some significant
                                                                         downside-associated behavior from
                                                                         VoEx right now on all timeframes: 1-
                                                                         day, 5-day, 10-day, and the 20-day
                                                                         (these are trading days, so 20-day is
                                                                         1-month).
                                                               The SNAP algorithm was designed
                                                               to help quantize timing with VoEx!
                                                               And so, although not on the table, I
                                                               think this is sufficiently decisive to
                                                               allow     awarding     our     groupe
d’extension a point, bringing our totals to: `mean-reversion`: 1 ; `extension`: 2.
Moving right along, let’s check in on our put-selling friends – who, in retrospect – did deserve
more than a causal, acknowledging head-nod (but publicly, we’ll just allude to that fact in our
annual Christmas card as a means of spiritual recompense).




That is not an increase!
For sure – it looks as though our put-selling friends have ceased all activities in the past week,
moving the 5-day put-selling-activity average to negative values on $SPY and near-zero-to-almost-
negative values on $QQQ.

This suggests that there is, at least, no big brains thinking that the market go brr in the near-term
futures. In this, I think we can not award a point to the `mean-reversion` camp, but rather, award
it to the group of extension instead.

7
  Reminder: when the two black lines cross below the gold line, then the outlook is negative (bearish) over the next
stated timeframe (in trading days) and when it is above the gold line, the outlook is positive (bullish).

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                       11/18/2024
Moving onwards, we encounter the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze Data (MWGS):




Oh boy! Although these data don’t scream downside per-se, they are curious.
First up, and on top, we see that over the past 20-days, the average number of gamma squeezes
has grown almost 10%, and we may also note that this trend has been pretty consistent (as we
can glean from the middle graph, since ~2024-09-23 the average count [orange line] has been
steadily growing). This growth is has become sufficient to push the overall growth-rate into
positive territory8, suggesting that momentum is very much so moving towards positive gamma-
squeeze growth.
Additionally, we can see that GTM has returned back into negative territory, after only spending
the briefest of times within positivito-land.


8
 Remember from the other week that there has been a sprinkle of predictiveness baked into the top-graphs
growth calculations to help capture the behavior of gamma in the market.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                  11/18/2024
Taken together, this paints a somewhat disconcerting future: if one were interested in having the
current market instability resolve sooner rather than later, one may well be interested also in
having a future outlook of stability, preferably stability sufficiently robust that the current
instability can dissolve without further propagation.
Now, should one instead, upon review of said future prospective environments, find the
anticipated future has begun to fill with short gamma, then perhaps one should reconsider the
certainty of a sufficiently-robust future environment in which the current instability can dissolve
without further propagation.
Hey! It turns out, that’s exactly where we find ourselves presently: although the data aren’t
particularly bearish just yet (no big negative GTM spikes or ~large~ surges in GS amounts), the
direction of the data is squarely pointed in the less-stable-than-present direction. To this end, it
seems that the point system is becoming quite stacked:
                                     `Mean-reversion` :      1
                                     Extension:             4


Perhaps LDPM/S can settle the score, let’s find out:




Well… also maybe not and not just because I am not good at math.
We see that with LDPS on Aggressive on the daily timeframe that ES has regained bearish
inclinations, and the price is resting squarely on the combined orangic-bid support provided by
LDPM-144 [neon-blue] and LDPM-377 [neon-yellow] with a large 3% chasm until the next organic
bid.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         11/18/2024
This is a similar situation! You can see the similarities in this situation with our recent episode of
price-sitting-on-LDPM-144-and-LDPM-377 – it’s the last clustering of bearish LDPS prints right
before the egregious green bar9!
In short: this situation rhymes and so too do the expectations: movement past the organic bid
provided by LDPM-144 and LDPM-377 with continued downside towards LDPM-610, about 3%
down.

Thus, the point system declares the outlook to be: prolonged downside, as the recent bullish
performance seems to have done little to alter our aforementioned outlooks (from ~3 weeks ago).
However, this vacillation is uncomfortable as it still does little to help with an overall timeframe
or time-horizon on which this should play-out. For instance, I usually will refer to things as “short-
term” (usually things <1-2 months), “long-term” (~6mo +), and “medium-term” (everything in-
between), but I think LDPM’s efficacy allows for another way to quantize timeframes: price-
horizons.
For instance, suppose we consider classifying expected downside or instability based on the
anticipated depth of the organic bid that is digested:
    -    Emergent Downside: Movement from a local peak to LDPM-144

    -    Extended Downside: Movement from peak through LDPMs down to the last organic bid
         (in this case, we are using LDPM-610).

    -    Exacerbated Downside: Movement below last organic bid with evidence of a bearish
         LDPM inversion.
Thus, the time-horizon systems can be paired with price-horizon systems (and even `triangulated`
with EPR if you wanted!).

In this, we see that we are currently experiencing `emergent downside` with expectation of
advancing to `extended downside`, however, the risk for `exacerbated downside` seems minimal
as of now. The associated time-frames are limited to the short-term as VoEx is still well-within
stability but extension into medium-term is likely should VoEx-daily move into the Propagation
Zone and stay there while GS’ increase over the next week.
So, all-in-all, the recent weeks’s bullish activities seemed to have mere been a stop-gap between
us and our afore-anticipated downside. The crucial points to watch will be VoEx and GS for time-
horizon estimates and LDPM for overall price-targets.

Could be fun!
Happy Trading –
Justin



9
  Without getting too into it – notice that the ABC that marked the large, green bar wasn’t sufficiently large to
include the LDPM-677 crowd. Curious!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                         11/18/2024
Rant

Progress has been admittedly slow on the Dashboard lately – but I am here to tell you that that is
changing!
You see, about a year ago, if you’ll remember, I discussed the outlooks for the Dashboard but also
discussed how my skill-set, frankly, wasn’t up to par to make our dreams of quicker processing,
API endpoints and even live-data feeds a reality.

So, despite a few months of ~the big sad~, I’ve been hard at work acquiring this skill set; besieged
with `rust_game_43` files as I clanked together endless tower-defense game after endless tower-
defense game for working on my Rust skills in order to eventually tackle the R code-base (which,
update on that front, is well under-way (there are Rust processes that I am monitoring for
completeness that finish well over 10x quicker than the equivalent R process! For now, however,
these translations have mostly been pats of the system that aren’t quite directly related to you;
so, their effects are somewhat mostly likely un-noticed for now).

All-in-all, it was (and still is) a very long process but things are coming to a head and I want to
share that with you.
You see, the Dashboard currently utilizes a service that helps with its load balancing,
authentication, general upkeep, IT support, etc. This service, however, quadrupled its price. Last
year, I was able to negotiate a year’s extension before conversion to the new price (which is out
of DDS’ price range), and thus, the goal quickly became: find or make a replacement. At first, I was
fretting but then I realized the silver lining! In learning how to replace this service, I would
effectively be learning the skill set I would need anyway to bring the dashboard updates to life!

And so, that’s what I did. From the ground up. What a fun little adventure! I had to learn Lua, server
configurations, networking stuff, nginx, openresty, authentication pathways, auth0 integration,
user-management and session persistence, aws stuff, DNS troubleshooting; the whole kit-and-
kaboodle (it’s fun to remember that 3 years ago about when I created Deep Dive Stocks, I literally
didn’t know what a website was!).

The result? Deep Dive Stocks is now completely independent in terms of its web-architecture and
so now that real fun begins!
The immediate consequence is that we will be moving soon to `dd.deepdivestocks.com` for the
Dashboard. The Dashboard itself should be largely the same - although you should see some
speed improvements, that’s just because the server itself is beefier (and it needs to be beefier for
the not-so-outlandish-future-outlooks it thereof!).
So, that’s all. In part I apologize this has taken so long, and I am thankful for your patience, and
look forward to fulfilling my part of the bargain with imminent and useful updates.

I’ll let you know when the switch happens – most likely within a week or two.


Justin



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           11/18/2024
