                                  Weekly Chat 04/15/2024


                                         Main Points


    -   VoEx has paused at the Propagation Line for $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   Hedging Environments are in a stable orientation with purchasing support located
        $+/IV- for both $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   Put-selling has ceased with near-zero activity as the week ended.
    -   Gamma squeezes have increased 62% over the past month and 25% over the past week.



                                         SUMMARY



           VoEx for both $SPY and $QQQ have stalled at the Propagation Line,
          despite the week’s activities. This hesitation on VoEx’s part predisposes
          one to tempering near-term bearish outlooks. This hesitation, however, is
          isolate to the near-term as the medium-, and longer-terms outlooks are
          undisrupted by the pause.

          The hedging environments are poised to offer robust purchasing support
          in the event of $-/IV+; the trade-off of this support is noteworthy selling
          pressure located in the IV-/$+ quadrants – especially for $QQQ.

          Gamma squeezes have increased substantially and without preceeding or
          current GTM prints, this is suggestive of large retail uptake of long
          gamma. In conjunction with IV and VIX throughout the market, this long
          gamma would appear to be in the form of long puts.

          Overall, some caution on “hitting the gas” on continued shorting due to
          VoEx’s pause for the early-part of the week, but overall the outlook
          remains the same: bearish.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      04/15/2024
                                             DETAILS




Hello, everyone!
What an exciting week. Our outlooks lately have become quite bearish, and as such, we were
holding out bearish ideologies for the past three weeks or so, and it seems that things are finally
coming to a fruition.
So, let’s quickly review the week prior and look to answer the question: and now what?

The Before Times
The week brought $SPY down 1.46% and $QQQ a paultry -0.5% - not quite as spectacular as our
$SPY friends but if we look towards the hedging environments, a glimpse of why starts to glimmer
in view:




It would seem that the lack of purchasing support located $-/IV+ for $SPY versus $QQQ’s may
have played a role in the overall movement for the week ahead.

Let’s keep that in mind, and how that might influence things as we progress to
The Now Times

Starting as usual with VoEx,
we see that $SPY’s VoEx’s
journey southbound has
stalled    right   at    the
Propagation       Line     -
somewhat ominously.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        04/15/2024
The same can be seen on $QQQ whereby both VoEx-daily and VoEx-trend have stalled at the
                                                       Propagation Zone.
                                                                  So, if any overly ambitious
                                                                  bearish inclinations exists, this
                                                                  provides some reason for a
                                                                  tempering of expectations for
                                                                  near-term continuation; but, this
                                                                  pause does not do much to
                                                                  disrupt the overall medium-, and
                                                                  longer-term views of continued
                                                                  downside.


This is, frustratingly, a hint at the downside pausing for a brief second – or at least, it should be
noted, that VoEx seems to have
pause in deepening its bearish
inclinations.
This pause is present in neo-VoEx
on $SPY but VoEx’s location does
not give an impression of
medium-, to long-term downside
as it, instead, states it distinctly,
as the pause has occurred within
the Propagation Zone definitively.
On $QQQ, however, we see VoEx-
daily has regained its acceptance
into stability after the most-
recent “VoEx-spike”. This is a nod towards a changing-of-the-winds for $QQQ but void of overtly
bullish outlooks until VoEx is within the Stable Zone.


                                                                     Taken-all-together, this, to me,
                                                                     heightens the risk for a flat-to-
                                                                     bullish week but, for now, the
                                                                     data do not seem sufficiently
                                                                     deviant to alter medium-, or
                                                                     longer-term     outlooks       of
                                                                     continued downside.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          04/15/2024
                                                In moving towards the gamma-hedging heatmaps
                                                for $SPY and $QQQ, one finds hedging
                                                environments that are resoundingly stable, and
                                                presently (for the first time in a while), in-unison
                                                between $SPY and $QQQ with purchasing support
                                                located $+ and IV-.
                                                This support, however, comes with the trade-off of
                                                reasonable head-winds for $QQQ (and slightly-so
                                                for $SPY, should IV decrease substantially) with
                                                omnipresent selling pressure in any almost all IV-
                                                directions.
                                                Both influence distributions show a bullish-outlook
                                                overall (the peak for both $SPY and $QQQ were in
                                                the blue), and present with large and present right-
                                                tails into the red.
                                                This seems a reasonable take: lightly bullish given
                                                the hedging environment, but if things do go south,
                                                they are likely to really go south.


Are these bullish-to-neutral outlooks shared amongst our put-selling friends?




Nope! It seems that per our DLP-overlord, the week-ahead holds little profitability by-way of selling
puts.
Quite the opposing view.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          04/15/2024
Moving from the put-selling friends to the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze, we see a large increase
in gamma squeeze growth with counts topping at 1,679 for the week – a 62% increase over the
month, and 25% over the week.




This increase in gamma-squeeze growth is noted to occur with near-zero gamma flows into the
market, suggestive that the new dealer short gamma may be due to spontaneous opening of retail
long gamma, rather than the normal decay / positioning / gamma dynamics that GTM monitors
to anticipate future gamma flows. Since GTM can only monitor extant positions and project
therefrom, when GTM is near-zero (suggesting its not picking up on anything), yet the gamma
field is clearly changing drastically, this suggests the positions causing the changes weren’t
present at the time of GTM’s measurements! But rather, these positions (and subsequent
gamma) are new!

Considering the sharp move in VIX this week, this seems like a clear picture of retail picking up
long puts – in quite the amounts – throughout the entire market!




Talk about trader sentiment.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      04/15/2024
So, overall, the medium-term outlook remains bearish as standard VoEx’s overall trajectory into
the Propagation Zone does not seem interrupted, despite the recent reprieve, neo-VoEx remains
within the Propagation Zone, and there is little-to-no put-selling present.

But, the near-term appears to be high-risk for a flat-to-mean-reverting week, by way of the
supportive nature of the hedging environments, and VoEx’s pauses.
The takeaway for me is that should the start of the week (i.e.: Monday afternoon-ish) appear
bullish, I’ll capture my short-profits from the near-dated items but keep the longer-dated open and
hedge with near-term long positions.
Otherwise, I’ll keep adding to the short.
Happy Trading,
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        04/15/2024
