                                  Weekly Chat 07/08/2024


                                        Main Points




                                         SUMMARY



          The week ended up for $SPY and down for $QQQ – a consequence it
          seems of $QQQ’s larger-than-normal IV run-up, removing purchasing
          support from the equity.

          The data now stand such that near-term downside is expected: neo-VoEx
          looks poised to continue its oscillating pattern (for what that’s worth)
          while encroaching evermore on the Propagation Zone.

          The hedging environments are ill-poised to support the index in the event
          of large IV+; a consequence most notable with the selling pressure located
          on $QQQ.

          DLP behavior seems moot with continued diminished-activity on $QQQ
          and flat-line activity on $SPY.

          Overall, downside suggested in the near-term but with longer-term still
          bullish.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     07/08/2024
                                              DETAILS




Heyo!


Last week, we left off with some bullish ideologies, and they seem to have been partially fulfilled.
$SPY, in our favor, moved ~1.00%, while $QQQ moved -0.25%ish. This discrepancy in
directionality can be partially explained via the heatmap environment, as we can see below:




$QQQ’s large positive IV movement worked to remove purchasing support from the market,
whereas $SPY was maintained pleasantly therein. The consequence, it seems, is that as $QQQ’s
IV decreased, the purchasing support helped bring things back up – ultimately ending slightly
below where the week started.
So, this week, with such an odd IV movement, before we blindly jump into continued bullish
ideologies, let’s just take a quick peek around to see if there isn’t anything else brewing that might
be worth keeping an eye on.
Getting started!

Starting as usual with VoEx, we can see immediately that, yes, perhaps there is room for pause:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           07/08/2024
On the right, we see $SPY presenting with, admittedly, something that resembles a TA pattern –
for lack of a better, more succinct description. The hesitation in calling $SPY’s VoEx-daily a
“descending-wedge-triangle-thing” but rather that in doing so, it implies the consequence; this is
the source of hesitation.
Nonetheless, we can see that there is a pattern of oscillating, lower-peaks bounded below by the
Propagation Line. Should the prior pattern of behavior continue, this does foretell a downside (the
pattern would show first as a red day, followed by VoEx-daily moving south along with the price
over the next few days).
This pattern is also present on $QQQ with larger peak amplitudes of VoEx than $SPY, and is
showing more aggression in reaching the Propagation Zone.
Taken together, these both suggest near-term downside – perhaps extended decently (over the
course of a week or two), should prior, similar episodes help shape our future landscape.
Over the longer-term, VoEx is within stability for both $SPY and $QQQ, and as such, things still
look cheery. Perhaps we’ll check back on that in a week after some rain.

With VoEx suggesting near-term downside is reasonable, let’s check the hedging environments
to see how things might respond:




Well – I wouldn’t say well.
$SPY’s hedging environment seems poised to offer purchasing support in the event of IV+; a
benefit of its vanna-stable orientation. $QQQ’s, on the other hand, does not appear to be so well-
off.

The current environment suggests that the local, and immediate selling pressure will quickly give
way into bleak nothingness should $- while IV+ (or really, any minor combination of the two).
Perhaps the brief purchasing support located on $QQQ will accelerate things northward for the
early part of the week – but it seems things are limited in that direction; IV can only go so much
lower!
Moving onwards with the data, we see the put sellers are mixed as well. Those who sell puts on
$SPY seem reasonably well reïnvigorated with the week-end’s performance, with some behavior


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        07/08/2024
sprucing back up. $QQQ, on the other hand, seems reasonably, and perhaps, understandably,
quite mute; both objectively and relatively.




Moving to the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data, we see the growth-rate of gamma squeezes
has become decently negative, suggesting a rapid decrease in gamma squeezes lately; and
indeed, over the past week the market has lost 26% of its gamma squeezes, and over the past
month: 35%.
GTM is showing near-zero prints as well, suggesting this flow of gamma is likely “organic” (rather
than due to the opening of new positions). Things in gamma-land seem calm; something one
would expect with stable medium to longer-term outlooks, as we have now.
During the expected near-term turbulence, it may be worth checking to ensure this stays the case,
nonetheless.

So, for now, near-term downside and turbulence expected but the overall and medium-term
outlook remains bullish.


Happy trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       07/08/2024
