                                      Weekly Chat 2025-12-15


                                             Main Points



       -   VoEx-daily for $SPY remains in Stable Zone while $QQQ’s exits into neutrality.
           VoEx for both remain in the Propagation Zone.
       -   Gamma-hedging heatmaps showcase profound and proximal purchasing support
           for $SPY. $QQQ showcases a stable but vanna-unstable orientation.
       -   MWGS continue to cool but still show a future with a greater number of gamma
           squeezes than present.
       -   LS&T data showcase the predominance of LTs being tested as supports on all
           intervals with growing evidence of a growing population of eager asks.
       -   Overall, increased risk for erratic movement with overall resolution still expected
           towards the downside.

                                             SUMMARY


           Last week, the outlook was erratic behavior with downside resolution and the
           same follows for this week.

           VoEx-daily for $SPY has stalled at the boundary of the Stable Zone but has not
           committed to leaving whereas $QQQ’s VoEx-daily has. The VoEx of both remain
           in the Propagation Zone, suggesting that VoEx-daily’s stall is merely a stall
           towards the eventual and continued downside.

           Gamma-hedging environment showcases quite significant purchasing support
           for $SPY extending reasonably $+. $QQQ, on the other hand, shows much less
           purchasing support available to it as well as a stable, vanna-unstable orientation
           (since IV is the main determent in hedging direction). This suggests $QQQ is in a
           pickle: either lower IV and encounter selling pressure or rise IV and lose
           purchasing support.

           LS&T data showcase spot testing supports on all intervals (except 987-minutes
           which shows a recent rejection) and evidence that the bullish liquidity keeping
           things afloat is about to encounter a renewed and robust wave of eager asks and
           profit-taking.

           Overall, these data continue to point towards downside but given the nature of
           the hedging environment and VoEx-daily’s unusual behavior, downside may be
           quite turbulent yet.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                  2025-12-15 to 2025-12-19
                                              DETAILS




                                              Updates!
Hello once more! Some updates for you guys.
Here is the link to the discord for you guys: https://discord.gg/KQedNXRCCU
With this link, you’ll have perpetual access to all channels in the new server. For now, its mostly
just the Toolkit alerts and chat but soon as the discord bot starts taking steps, VoEx graphs and
other data will be making their ways therein!
I’ll be shutting down the original discord server January 1st, 2026.

My goal is two-pronged with the discord bot: the first is that it will help set up the data processing
and API endpoints required for a new dashboard and two it can server as a place to gather ideas
as to what kind of data would be most impactful and helpful on the new dashboard.
Be sure to give your feedback! Also you should all have access to the Liquidity Toolkit, if not, let
me know and I’ll get it sorted!
Now back to the regularly scheduled programming!
                                                 ---
Hello every-body!

Last week, we ended with notions of turbulence with resolution to the downside. To this effect,
$SPY moved -0.57% while $QQQ moved -1.90%. Quite the difference! We can view the progression
throughout the week below in the Gamma-hedging heatmaps:




It seems $SPY was leading the charge this week: manifesting both the first and last steps into
the week towards the purchasing support, while $QQQ seems tugged hither-and-fro within
purchasing support.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2025-12-15 to 2025-12-19
To continue our saga, our goal ahead of us this weekly chat is to decide if downside shall continue
(as expected) or if another sneaky bounce might be lurking somewhere (typically around corners).
Let’s try to find out.
Finding, Found, Founded
Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




A strange-showing! Let’s start with the basics: VoEx is in the Propagation Zone and so ultimate-
resolution is thusly still expected on the downside.
Now to the less-straightforward aspects:

        -   VoEx-daily on $SPY is hovering menacingly at the boundary to the Bullish zone. In
            principal, VoEx-daily continues its stent within the green fields of the stable and bullish
            zone and thus provides a bullish future. In theory, VoEx-daily doesn’t look healthy in its
            current state and this begets ideas of exiting the Stable zone (very reminiscent of VoEx
            Divergence! [Tier II Material].
        -   VoEx itself on $SPY looks poised to exit the Propagation Zone!
        -   VoEx-daily on $QQQ has exited stability while VoEx resides deep evermore in the
            Propagation Zone.
A tricky environment!
Such environments point towards greater-than-normal instability which is to say: erratic, which is
my way of lowering your expectations of a correct outlook for the week ahead! Nonetheless,
things still look poised to go down, however, we should look at the other data carefully to inspect
just how much powder might be left in a surprise pop.

First up on the chopping block then are the gamma-hedging heatmaps, which showcase:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2025-12-15 to 2025-12-19
An unusual environment once more! We seem to have loads of purchasing support on $SPY but
minimal on $QQQ! Additionally, we can see that $QQQ has two areas of gamma neutrality towards
which it can reach whereas $SPY lacks even a single; to this end, we find $QQQ in a tough spot:
move 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + and incur the loss of purchasing support or move 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − and become introduced to selling
pressure.
Should $SPY have its way, up-and-to-the-left ([$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ]) is likely the most promising outlook due
to its abundance of purchasing support it has found surrounding itself of late. With regards to
$QQQ, this spells trouble unless $QQQ can manage an almost vertical climb northward ($+ ) in an
effort to avoid the selling-pressure ridge.
Overall this speaks once more to the unusual environment, this is somewhat comforting, since
most unusual environments tend to resolve on the downside but less so when one remembers
even falling down a waterfall isn’t a smooth process.
The Market-wide gamma squeeze have remained largely the same [not shown], and the predictive
data too [shown]:
The predictive count curve (golden-
brown) is still positive but less so,
indicating that the future is expected to
have more gamma squeezes than
present, but by a smaller margin-of-
growth than occurred into this week.
The predictive growth curve (purple) is
negative, suggesting a continued
application of the brakes towards
gamma-squeeze growth, but an optimist
would notice its creeping back towards
positivity-land.
In short these are modestly bullish prints as they showcase a gamma-squeeze foundation that is,
admittedly, cooling off. Something to definitely keep an eye on as price stagnates to see if those
gamma-squeezes-left-behind come back to spend the holidays.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of               2025-12-15 to 2025-12-19
Moving onwards, let’s check on the ES LS&T data:




Up top on the 90-minute [top-left] we see bearish liquidity after 2 aggressive-ask cascades that
occurred during the week. There is some evidence that the scoop is initiating but LT1 is still above
price. This suggests testing LT7 at $6,811.29 is likely, during which time monitoring those profit-
takers and the developing scoop will likely be worthwhile.
The 144-minute [top-right] shows LT6 acting as support and, it would seem, injecting bullish
liquidity back into the market. This is optimistic but we do find evidence of significant profit-taking
underway by way of LT5, 3, 2, 4, and 1 being elevated quite substantially from spot. This is
modestly bearish as any $+ expectations would be dependent on LT6 out-liquidity-ing LT1, 2, 3, 5,
7, which seems slightly unfair.
In a similar vein, we find the 987-minute [bottom-left] experiencing the tail-end of a LT5 rejection,
despite bullish liquidity. The bullish liquidity suggests another test is likely to be performed but
LS is telling us that up at the organic ask, there is no net bid flowing upwards (Neutral
designation). Perhaps LT5 has run out of bullish reserves and is now transitioning to being an
organic ask! This will be the most probable case, should LS start printing `Towards Bid` and
especially if LS becomes bearish (as usual). The takeaway here: things are technically bullish but
the longevity of said bullishness is under question.
Lastly, we have the weekly view which showcases bullish LS while resting on quite the upwards-
bent LT5. Its worth noting that the profit-takers are observable quite well now on the weekly
timeframes, with LT1-LT3 above spot.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2025-12-15 to 2025-12-19
If we zoom in on the Weekly, we can see just how precarious spot’s position is, as LT1, 2, 3, and
5 look well-poised to supersede spot.




This suggests that if the bids currently keeping price afloat (and seemingly have been since
August!) are to fail, $6,512 is likely the next mini-stop at LT4 before a leg down to $6,337 at LT6.
Should the bid hold and price appreciate, well, then forget everything I said and enjoy the ride.
Otherwise and overall, it appears that the market is still quite unstable, even if price continues to
stagnate. This instability is marked throughout by tenuously bullish data that appear to be in
relative states of exhaustion: VoEx-daily on $QQQ is leaving stability, the gamma-hedging
heatmap for $QQQ shows minimal purchasing support, GS prediction suggest GS growth in the
near future, and LS&T data showcase LT supports that look quite tapped with a growing number
of views showcasing an increase in profit-taking and eager asks.
But, despite this, VoEx-daily for $SPY is still in the stable zone, and technically liquidity is bullish
on the 144-, 987-, and 1-Week intervals, and $SPY has quite substantial purchasing support should
it need it.
Thus, high risk for large moves with, as per usual of late, overall expected resolution towards the
downside!
Happy Trading!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2025-12-15 to 2025-12-19
