                                  Weekly Chat 2025-06-23


                                        Main Points



    -   VoEx-daily has exited stability for both $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   Gamma-hedging environments are diffusely supportive for $SPY and remain in a purely
        dichotomous state for $QQQ with purchasing support located spot-down and selling
        pressure spot-up.
    -   The Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data are showcasing GS activity ramping up. The
        modified MWGS predictive curves are showing anticipated growth and acceleration.
        GTM has renewed its negative vow once more.
    -   Per LDPM/S, ES shows weakness with the next support located about 4% down.

                                         SUMMARY



          Last week’s minimal movements left the market worse-off by way of
          moving VoEx-daily out of stability (and almost into the PZ), and worked to
          shift VoEx towards more grounded aspirations. The consequence of these
          data-changes is near-term downside expectation.

          The gamma-hedging heatmaps show a divergence in homogeneity
          between $SPY and $QQQ’s hedging environment: whereas $SPY shows a
          more normal environment with a ridge of purchasing support set to assist
          the index up-and-to-the-right, $QQQ’s presents with the two-layer
          environment with purchasing support located in the immediate vicinity
          and downwards while selling pressure sits up top.

          MWGS data showcase nominal and predictive metrics pointing towards
          growth. GTM has deepened its negative aspirations as well, suggesting
          that the current GS-growth has a mounting wave of short-gamma support
          heading towards it from the distance. This provokes even more thoughts
          of GS growth.

          LDPM/S studies show a VX structure ripe for springing upwards, with a
          potential downside support target on ES at about 4.00% down.

          Prudency suggests bracing for downside !




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat         for the week of              2025-06-23 to 2025-06-27
                                              DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with bearish leanings for the short week ahead and to that end, $SPY moved
-0.45% and $QQQ moved -0.02% for $QQQ!
We can visualize these stunning moves below, in the hedging heatmaps:




Mostly moot moves!

The benefit of these whimsical wiggles is that we can keep the spectre of ~mean reversion~
tightly bound to its effigy as these moves are, well, you can see what they are.
For the week ahead, the task before us is straightforward – do the data continue to spell
downside? If so, are there any identifiable targets, and if not (as in, if the future does not appear
to be downsideladen), why?

“To be ladened with the ladle of life” – chef proverb
Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-06-23 to 2025-06-27
For both $SPY (left) and $QQQ (right) we see VoEx-daily rapidly exiting from stability! In similar
behavior, VoEx itself has turned and is now decisively pointed downwards. Taken together this
paints a picture of near-term turbulence (with resolution to the downside the most likely outcome)
and should VoEx become enticed and fall from grace as well, then our downside expectations will
have to be expanded.
For now, however, this is a pretty clear showing that something is removing stability from the
markets, and VoEx-daily is, in traditional fashion, seeking shelter deep below ground within the
Propagation Zone.
How might our markets handle such instability with regards to the hedging heatmaps?




Mixed!
On $SPY (left) it seems that conditions have cleared somewhat and we can see a stable and
supportive environment with gamma neutrality located predominately in the [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +] and [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −]
directions. Neither of which the market tends to enjoy all that much!
$QQQ, on the other hand, still remains gamma-neutral-less with local and diffuse purchasing
support located all around (the crosshairs) with selling pressure located spot-up at just shy of
$500. In isolation, this suggests to the author1 that suggests something along the lines of
“[$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] until $QQQ around $500 then likely return to downside”.
Taken into view with VoEx, it suggests the potential for said upside but tempered against VoEx’s
indictment of near-term downside, the narrative shifts more to “should the purchasing support
not be sufficient on $QQQ to withstand [whatever VoEx is detecting that is prompting downside
expectations] then $SPY’s movement into selling pressure via [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +] seems highly likely”.
In either hallucination, we can see downside is still the ultimate outlook – but the path to get there
will either be distinct and direct, or haphazard and wander around a bit due to hedging practices.
Moving onwards to the DLP data [not shown again] we see you are told that the activity is still at-
zero! Thus, for now it would seem that there is still minimal desire to onload long puts for
profitability with the assumption being that this is because of the inherent market risk the



1
    Me


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                2025-06-23 to 2025-06-27
financial overlords are detecting which is prohibitive from taking on such exposure. This
translates to: money ain’t gambling at the moment!
Moving onwards from the long gamma to the short gamma, we find the Market Wide Gamma
Squeeze data showing continued ~rumblings~:
                                                    Continued growth! Although the GS amounts
                                                    experienced a slight dip from the peak seen
                                                    last week, we can see that growths are still
                                                    appreciable:
                                                    20-Day :      7.3% increase
                                                    10-Day :      11% increase
                                                    5-Day :       2% increase

                                                    Coinciding with these subtle gamma
                                                    squeeze growth numbers, we see GTM is
                                                    diving once-more into negative territory!

                                                    This suggests that even as these gamma
                                                    squeezes are emerging into the market, the
                                                    flow being detected is still very short. The
                                                    consequence is an expectation of a gamma-
                                                    squeeze laden future (and thus, a bearish
                                                    future).




In checking with the predictive GS growth curves, we find:
The Predictive Count Curve (PCC;
brown line) is officially pointing up!
This is a reflection of both the
current growth but also the
anticipated, future growth. This
means that in combination (the first
part being the real growth rates and
the second being the anticipated,
future growth rates) the outlook is:
growth.
This sentiment is echoed with the
Predictive Growth Curve (PGC; purple
line, which is the “predicted acceleration”
of GS growth) which is showing positive values once-more! This means that the acceleration of
GS growth is now positive!



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of             2025-06-23 to 2025-06-27
Should both continue to pivot northwards, this paints an ever-growing image of market-downside.

So, taken together, the future looks bearish – fitting for the last week of June.
VoEx-daily has exited stability rapidly and it appears that VoEx is having a change of heart itself;
this paints downside expectations as proximal but not “significant”, per se. To that end, we find a
gamma-hedging environment that is technically poised to offer support in the event of any over-
arching downside pressure – well, at least for $QQQ as $SPY’s environment is more airy and
dependent on the combination of $ and IV movements (that is to say: is not as supportive on
paper as $QQQ). Along with all of this, we find that the gamma squeeze data is indeed starting to
wake up.
Thus, downside looks proximal indeed! Does it look promising? Well – maybe not yet but let’s
gauge potential downside targets with LDPM/S. First up, $ES:




Those are some bearish looking flows!
On the 90-minute [top-left], we see a tenuously forming bulltrap that looks to have already gotten
snagged on LDPM-L5. Liquidity Levels at this stage show a positive amount but negative flow –
an appreciable combination for bullish ideations but the negative flow suggests the resistance at
LDPM-L5 has already “tapped” the underlying of any bullish oomph that may be bubbling to the
surface.
Moving onwards to the 144-minute [top-right] we see bearish flows all around! LL-, Amount and
Flow are both bearish-leaning as well. This view shows downside expectations without any
identifiable support!
Thankfully if we “zoom out” some to the 987-minute [bottom-right], we find support! The bad news
is, however, that this support is already being called upon to, well, support the current situation
on ES. The bad news with this bad news is that we can see that tapping this support has not done


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-06-23 to 2025-06-27
much to increase the bullish flows of liquidity (as measured via LL-Flow). In fact, despite the
LDPM-L5 & LDPM-L7 support, it would seem that bearish liquidity is continuing to increase! To
this end, we see the next support would be located at LDPM-L6 ($5,790-ish; ~-4.00%).
Zooming out even more, we arrive at the 1-week view, which shows the ever-persistent beartrap
in its full glory. Since the price appreciation started, LDPS has had ~10 opportunities to switch to
bullish, and it has refused every occasion! This suggest the bear trap is indeed still trapping. With
that in mind, we can see that reaching up to LDPM-L5 was unsuccessful, and now conditions are
resting once-more on LDPM-L6. Despite this support, we can see LL-Amount and LL-Flow are
negative. This suggests failure of LDPM-L6 is forthcoming, with the subsequent downside target
being at about $5,790ish as well (-4.00%ish).
Taken together, it would seem bearish ideations are strong with the next appreciable support
located at ~$5,790!
Let’s take a peek at the volatility environment via $VX to see if this is reflected therein as well:




All-in-all: yes!
Of note is the 987-minute [bottom-left] which showcases the end of the recent bear-trap (as we
saw last week) but as price has tested the LDPM-L6 ceiling and failed (so far), we can see that
flow of bullish liquidity has continued to increase! To this end, LL-Amount is already positive and
LL-Flow seems not-too-far-behind. This is an incredibly bullish view and suggests that movement
above LDPM-L6/5 could spark substantial upwards mobility (in particular given how low LL-
Amount is! Remember: the lower the liquidity, the higher the expected future price volatility!).
Another curious view of a non-ending trap is on the 987-minute which showcases the persistent
bulltrap underway! Much like #ES, we can see that LL-Amount and LL-Flow are still both positive
– despite the recent “price-decay” the bulltrap has experienced. Given that bullish liquidity is still



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2025-06-23 to 2025-06-27
abundant and flowing, and that LDPS hasn’t changed it outlook to bearish, the outlook is: bulltrap
is still trapping!
All-in-all, the future looks bearish with an approximate downside target of ~4.00% as seen from
LDPM/S.
Happy trading!
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-06-23 to 2025-06-27
