                                   Weekly Chat 08/26/2024


 Main Points



    -   VoEx is still showing Bull-trap.
    -   Hedging environments are in a vanna-stable orientation with local and diffuse
        purchasing support present for $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   Put-sellers remain absent.
    -   Market-wide gamma squeeze data show continued lack-of-disturbance therein.
    -   Overall, bullish with prudency still expecting a trap.

          SUMMARY



          This week, VoEx has continued its move towards stability with VoEx-daily
          has remained therein since its spike-like move the other week. In this, the
          interpretation is bullish on the near-term with bearish on the medium-term,
          due to VoEx’s location in the Propagation Zone.

          Hedging environments are poised to offer diffuse purchasing support
          throughout due to both $SPY and $QQQ’s current vanna-stable
          orientation. Influence distributions are suggesting a flat-to-bullish week
          ahead.

          Put-selling remains zero, suggesting that there is little-to-no hope for
          profitability in the [$+, IV-] quadrant (or some combination thereof).

          Gamma squeeze data is still cool – despite the uptick in negative GTM
          from last month. This suggests the things are still well confined to the
          medium-term for now (the downside, that is).

          Overall, preparing bullish, expecting bearish resolution to this bull-trap.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          08/26/2024
    DETAILS




Hello every-body!
Last week, we lamented not being ahead of the bearish-curve all-the-while mocking the curve for
being a figment of expression rather than a real entity with teeth and the like, like us. From there,
it was decided that the data were reminiscent of a forming bull-trap, and as such, bullish
ideologies were tenuously adopted.
This was fortuitous, as $SPY was good for 1.41% this week, while $QQQ provided 1.05% towards
our goals. Now, with such accolades behind us, the only objective in sights this week is well
defined: stretch our fortuitous fortunes further, friends!
To start our foray into foraging for facts to either further finance or forsake - forevermore - our
fantasmes fauveïsh1, let’s start with the gamma hedging heatmaps:




A curious showing – it is not often to see a week-long’s-worth of [$+, IV+], but it does seem as
though the market was migrating towards gamma neutrality predominately in said direction for
the first part of the week. Overall, the net effect of this was a bit-of-a-dip-and-recover on $QQQ
(with some persistent IV+) and some steady upwards mobility on $SPY (long OTM call buyers,
rejoice!).
The only slight concern is that IV+ may be indicative of some insurance being purchased – so
perhaps we should keep a close eye out to see if the onset of dealer short puts didn’t nullify the
above purchasing support throughout the week.
Once we are done with our analysis, let’s do some fun hand-waving to usher in the new week.
Let’s get started!




1
    Roughly translates to “bearish phantasies”? Kinda wingin’ it on the French here.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          08/26/2024
Down here
Starting as usual with VoEx2 (below; $SPY on left; $QQQ on right), we see VoEx-daily’s persistence
within stability:




This behavior continues to suggest bullish performance on the near-term (what with VoEx-daily
spiking into the Bullish zone and all), and although it seems tantalizing to extend this
interpretation (medium-term bullishness maybe?) further and envision VoEx as “basically already
out of the Propagation Zone” – caution! For t’isn’t3!
As such, since VoEx is still within the Propagation Zone, this bullish performance is considered
to be transitory. Until either bearish performance resumes (and VoEx-daily moves back into P.Z.)
or VoEx moves out of the P.Z., the prudent outlook is kept as “likely bull-trap”.
With the data still suggestive of a forming bull-trap, let’s see how the hedging environments are
poised to respond:




2
  Quasi-regular reminder that this is the updated version of VoEx and I am working on getting its computation within
a reasonable time-frame to have included on the dashboard. Its interpretation is largely the same, except VoEx now
refers to the gold line and VoEx-daily is the magenta line.
3
  Wingin’ it on English too.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                       08/26/2024
Reasonably well – but we see that - once again - gamma neutrality, with respect to our current
position at the cross-hairs, is towards the right [IV+], interspaced by purchasing support, and
towards the left [IV-], interspaced by more purchasing support, followed by selling pressure.
A vanna-stable orientation4 but a tricky one given the recent! This orientation suggests that, much
like last week, reaching gamma neutrality towards the right will place the market in a [$+, IV+]
manner (which, admittedly, is quite an odd manner to go in), or via-à-vis [$-, IV-]!
To hand-wave slightly, this is how it looks in my mind:




Since achieving [$+, IV-] and [$-, IV-] are relatively uncommon situations, it would seem the two
paths towards gamma neutrality are relatively inaccessible (without another unusual week like
the week prior) and so the path-of-least-resistance would collapse towards a casual [$+, IV-] move
with some decent variance (probably in IV mainly) to be seen.

It shold be noted that a [$-, IV+] path does exist through purchasing support – should the market
find the additional bid from hedging insufficient to sate any anticipated downside moves.
But, let’s see how well this handwaving fares in the week ahead!
With our expectations elaborately, and (as I’ve heard some say) eloquently discussed above, let
us move to our put-selling compadres to see how they are expressing their expectations:


4
  Due to IV being the dominant decider in hedging directionality, it can be said that the hedging environment is in a
“Vanna Orientation”. The stability refers to the idea that if the market experiences a [$-, IV+] move, this will
introduce purchasing support, thus “stabilizing” the $-. An unstable orientation would see [$-, IV+] introduce more
selling pressure, thus perpetuating the cycle.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                        08/26/2024
Oh – no one’s home5.
Never mind we’ll come back next week to check.
Moving on, let’s check out the gamma environments!




5
 The data show collapse of put-selling on $SPY (right) and $QQQ (the other right) suggesting that there is little
expectation for profitability in a [$+, IV-] (or some combination thereof) environment. Persistent lack of put-selling
activity is of note! For what, though, we may never know! The elusive put-sellers rarely tell their secrets – all we can
do is watch.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                          08/26/2024
Top is the gamma-growth graph, which is negative – indicating that the overall rate-of-growth of
gamma squeezes in the market is negative.
                                                                   This shouldn’t be too
                                                                   surprising as below we see
                                                                   the graph of the number of
                                                                   gamma squeezes present,
                                                                   and it does, in fact, align with
                                                                   the     notion    of      recent
                                                                   decreasature.


                                                                   Below that, we see the GTM
                                                                   graph, which has grown from
                                                                   indicating negative gamma
                                                                   flowing towards the market
                                                                   (which should be hitting now-
                                                                   ish, presumably, since it
                                                                   started at the start of last
                                                                   month) to being neutral-
                                                                   positive. This      suggests
                                                                   gamma flowing towards the
                                                                   market is stabilizing rather
                                                                   than destabilizing – at least
                                                                   tentatively for now, as GTM
                                                                   starts to sprout.


                                                                   The take-home from this is
                                                                   that things look tenuously
                                                                   still reasonable in gamma-
land, even with the recent negative GTM warnings. This is beneficial for maintaining a long-term
bullish outlook to straddle our still-present medium-term downside (assuming this is a bull-trap,
of course).
Maybe its not! Who knows.
Conveniently, however, what we do know is LDPS and LDPM have some concerning signs:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       08/26/2024
On the weekly timeframe, $SPY’s condition looks – rough. The Lower-order LDPMs (LDPM-13 →
LDPM-55) are above the price, and $SPY has already broken through LDPM-89 (neon-blue line)
with bearish liquidity. Take a peek:




This is, on its own, is bullish (in that, things say “bullish”) but a keen eye might notice the
“Worsening” aspect of LDPS’ print out, along with LDPS’ refusal to return to “Strong Bullish” (or
even “Bullish”) after climbing back above LDPM-89.

Not particularly what a full-on-bull outlook would hope to see. If anything, this, I think, provides
supplemental evidence for “Bull-trap”.
Overall, the market looks ~fine~ in that the bull-trap seems to be trapping, but in doing so, nothing
seems to be breaking terribly much: hedging environments are at least poised to offer some
purchasing support; VoEx-daily hasn’t moved back into the P.Z.; VoEx is moving towards stability;
etc.etc.
However, despite these not-so-bad considerations existing, their existence is weak, fragile and
like my once-forgotten-but-still-cold-ish iced coffee, may not have sufficient positive impact. This
bullish-temperance is supplied via VoEx not being or having left the P.Z., the lack of put-selling,
VoEx-daily’s spike, etc.etc.
So, all-in-all, brace for up, expect down seems reasonable.



Happy Trading!


Now, let’s do some hand waving.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          08/26/2024
You know how I hate lines? And no, not lines as in queues6 but lines. Like these: − ; small though
they may be, if you look close enough, they’re literally everywhere and I haven’t processed that
yet.
Anyways, I started putting lines on things in an effort to quell the voices just to see if there was
anything to see. And …
Maybe? Let’s investigate and not ask too many questions.
[The real motivation for this was I am developing a “forecasting” model of sorts that leverages
LDPM/LDPS to provide, well, forecasts, and in doing so, I have been cycling through several
frameworks to work with, and that’s where these lines came from.]

Let’s check out this wonky looking monstrosity (bigger example on next page):
The shaded wedges coming from the LDPMs (LDPM-89 and LDPM-144) and are anticipated
ranges for those LDPMs to travel, and the dashed lines represent their current/anticipated
trajectory.
                                                                                     Now – don’t fret too
                                                                                     much, my quantitative
                                                                                     friends; these ranges
                                                                                     (and lines) are derived
                                                                                     from, at least, some form
                                                                                     of        math       (think
                                                                                     converging splines of
                                                                                     sorts),    so    its    not
                                                                                     complete voodoo – but
                                                                                     we         are       close.
                                                                                     Nonetheless, having a
                                                                                     repeatable, standardized
                                                                                     method is of analysis is
                                                                                     always helpful, so let’s
                                                                                     give it a go.
Although converging splines is a great band name, it can be very difficult to compute by hand on
TradingView with, essentially, digital sticks. Thankfully, there’s a neat trick we can do to
approximate the values we need – we’ll go through that process below as well.
To explain why this is a bit more robust than just mapping lines to a map is that the value of LDPM
(I haven’t disclosed this so don’t tell anyone!) that is placed on the chart is the projected value !
So essentially, LDPM is already itself a forecast masquerading as plain indicator!
Put another way, the graphed value of LDPM is the arrow pointing in the direction of the trajectory
of LDPM, at the given point-in-time until the bar closes (the data are “locked” once the bar closes).
Sneaky huh? You can mentally visualize this by putting little arrows at the end of each LDPM line.



6
    French for the British word for “queue” which is the word they use for “line”.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                     08/26/2024
So, armed with this knowledge, it becomes natural to want to iterate on this process and extend
it further and that’s what we are seeing here! Let’s take another peek since I’ve rambled for a
while. This time, on $RIOT.

The idea is straightforward: what does it look like LDPM is going to do. So, to do that, we do some
funky, unfortunate math, give up inside a little, and then map out the ranges for LDPM-89 and
LDPM-144.
Then, from within that range, I drew my anticipated trajectory of LDPM with the condition that it
had to stay within the highlighted region.

Once those four objects were placed, I looked to see what happened in reality. And: behold!




Ooooo
Ahhhhh
So, we are looking at the anticipated trajectory of everything; the highlighted regions are the
anticipated range of LDPM-144, while the blue wedge is LDPM-89. We can see that there is a
“dunk” pattern occurring, and so when placing my price-expectations, I figured a trip to LDPM-89
would be reasonable.
From there, since the data looked as though there would be an LDPM-144 / LDPM-89 crossover
soon, a bearish finale to the trip to LDPM-89 felt appropriate.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        08/26/2024
Now, obviously this is sample size 1 (I mean, I’ve done this a lot lately and its pretty cool! And I
want to show you the method now too to test out) but, still, pretty neat to see an idea produce
fruit:




Heyo! Not terrible! Some timing issues perhaps – but we aren’t looking for perfection here.
Moreso just a guide-stick for now to help anticipate where things are moving that is standardized
some way.
So, let’s look at
another example
but this time I’ll go
through the steps
of doing this on
your own!
First up, let’s get
started         with
$CPRX on the
Daily interval:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         08/26/2024
The first step is draw the range for LDPMs.




To do this, we will iterate over the following steps:
   -   Starting from the recent peak and bottom, draw rays from the selected point unto the end
       of LDPM.
   -   From the peak or bottom draw a ray to the appropriate LDPM, and then go half way
       between there and the end-point of LDPM, and draw another ray. Then go between that
       point and the end of LDPM, and repeat. You should get something that looks like:


From there, the Projection Tool lets us create a forecast-wedge. We can do this by ensuring the
upper-limit and lower-limits of the wedge are defined by our rays. As such:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     08/26/2024
Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat   08/26/2024
Erase the rays, and repeat the process with LDPM-144, and you should have something similar
to:




Now, let’s draw the LDPM-rays. These are the “projected” pathways from LDPM. To do this, we
first draw rays from the last crossover to the current data, as such:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                 08/26/2024
Now, while staying within the ranges, the goal is to make these two lines cross within their shared
boundaries in a way that minimizes the movement of LDPM-144’s ray while maximizing the
movement of LDPM-89’s ray.

In other words, only try to adjust LDPM-89’s ray when trying to make the two cross. I did so like
such:




Now, the stage is set – we can see that the anticipation is that LDPM-89 will start moving rapidly
northward to initiate a bullish cross with LDPM-144 relatively soonish – within about a month.

For anticipating price, the rule set I use is:
    -   Conditions are bullish and stable (per LDPM) when Price > LDPM-89 > LDPM-144 or Bullish
        and Stable if Price < LDPM-89 < LDPM-144.
    -   Other configurations will “decompose” into either Bullish Stable or Bearish Stable.
    -   Use LDPS on “Balanced” for general directionality insight.
So below, above we see Price > LDPM-144 > LDPM-89 and LDPS is bullish.

Since the overall expectation is bullish, that means conditions must become Price > LDPM-89 >
LDPM-144, so I expect a fall to LDPM-89 followed by a LDPM-89/144 crossover. Can this happen
with our current configuration?




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        08/26/2024
Let’s draw it out and then fast-forward in time some to see how we did.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                            08/26/2024
Not too shabby! In fact, we under-estimated the performance! Neato – things decomposed
exactly as expected: the price fell to LDPM-89 (earlier than expected, thanks to LDPM-89 moving
up for us), LDPS remained bullish, and a LDPM-89/144 crossover occurred! Nice.

Obviously, the estimations weren’t exact (LDPM-89 moved above its “expected range” while
LDPM-144 didn’t decline quite as much) but I think for just quickly sketching a trajectory using a
repeatable, methodological process is pretty nifty.
If you test this out or whatnot, let me know how you like it!
To recap the process:


   -     Draw the rays for LDPM-89 and LDPM-144 from the last trough/peak to the current data.
   -     Draw a projection from the origin point (where LDPM is), to the upper limit, and then drag
         down to the lower.
   -     Once completed for both, from the last crossover, draw the LDPM-89 and LDPM-144 rays.
   -     While staying within the expected region for LDPM-89, attempt to make the lines cross.
   -     If the lines cannot cross – then no expected crossover within that “range” until something
         changes!



Happy Trading!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        08/26/2024
