                                     Weekly Chat 2026-06-15


                                            Main Points



       -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ are diving into bearish zone while VoEx-daily resides
           already therein,
       -   Gamma-hedging heatmaps showcase a stable orientation with purchasing support
           located spot-down and selling pressure spot-up,
       -   GS data suggests continued growth, albeit slowly with similar interpretations
           coming from the predictive data,
       -   LS&T data suggest an ongoing bulltrap by way of Jorge’ s sign, with near-by
           resolution-prompting via LT ceilings.
       -   Turbulence and downside expected!

                                             SUMMARY



           The data suggest turbulence is present (by way of VoEx “disagreement”, hedging
           heatmaps extreme delineations, and incoming profit-takers noted on LS&T) with
           downside being the most likely overall direction (by way of VoEx-daily in bearish
           zone, Jorge’s sign + bulltraps from LS&T) but without much evidence that this
           downside will extend systemically or occur rapidly (by way of GS data being quite
           stagnated, even if elevated, multiple layers of support on the LS&T data).

           Thus, the outlook can best be described as: shakey-downside with intermittent
           bursts of spot which puts the overall strategy at: expose to short and sell the
           peaks.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2026-06-15 to 2026-06-19
                                              DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with ideations of bearish inclinations, and the market obliged, initially, but
as we can see in the heatmaps below, this dip was short-lived:




It seems $QQQ was at the mercy of hedging practices quite a bit – with the initial part of the week
seeing a decrease in IV prompting selling pressure to enter, resulting in a the decent early-week
drop. Overall, $SPY moved 0.57% while $QQQ’s recovery prompted a 2.28% week-over-week
move!

This week, let’s check with the data to see if bearish inclinations persist, and if so, if they’ve
worsened and if not, if conditions are looking bullish once more.
Let’s get started!
Starting with VoEx, we find:




Neither of those VoEx graphs are particularly hope-inspiring for bullish thoughts as both show
VoEx-daily in the Bearish zone – this heralds more turbulence with a slight leaning towards
downside.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2026-06-15 to 2026-06-19
Let’s check the gamma-hedging heatmaps to see if we can gauge which direction said turbulence
might toss the market first:




Per hedgers, it should be up-then-down as both $SPY and $QQQ have local and diffuse purchasing
pressure located spot-down, with selling pressure located slightly above; worth noting should pre-
market experience some $+.
Even with such a cursory look at the data, the expectation of turbulence seems most pronounced.
Let’s check on the foundations of the market per the market-wide gamma squeeze data:
First up is the counts, which shows almost a whole month of stagnate GS amounts! And these
amounts are reasonably elevated, not the typical ~600 we would expect during the market
minimums. The growth curve suggests that this stagnation is still producing a net gain in GS
counts, if not at least ever so marginally.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2026-06-15 to 2026-06-19
Next up is the predictive data:




A similar sight: stagnation but with a net lean towards the expectation of a future with more
gamma squeezes then present – but taken as a whole, it seems this future will arrive quite
gradually, not all-at-once like we are used to.
Overall, these data continue to point towards downside but perhaps a meandering, troublesome
and turbulent downside, rather than a quick market correction we are more acclimated with.
Let’s check in with LS&T to see if we can identify any potential targets:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2026-06-15 to 2026-06-19
Here we see Jorge’s sign on the 90-minute1, which suggests the LT6 level at $7,473 has a high
potential to act as a stop-check, prompting downside to return. The same finding is also noted on
the 144-minute.
Zooming out we see bearish liquidity on the 987-minute and more encroaching profit-takers on
the weekly.

Overall, the expectation derived from LS&T is similar to that of the heatmaps: first up (some), then
back down!
So, overall, the data still point towards turbulence leaning towards downside but evidence for a
systemic correction is not yet visible.


Happy trading,


Justin




1
 This is defined as the following: A bearish LT stack with bearish liquidity experiences a bulltrap. Once the LT
ceiling is reached, downside usually returns and moves spot below the previously obtained low.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                    for the week of                     2026-06-15 to 2026-06-19
