                                   Weekly Chat 2025-02-17


                                         Main Points



    -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ have spiked into stability with this week’s positive moves.
    -   The Gamma hedging heatmaps showcase a stable orientation with diffuse and local
        purchasing support for both $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   Put-selling is increasing slightly on $QQQ with no activity noted on $SPY.
    -   MWGS data showcases a growing but still negative growth rate and minimal month-
        over-month performance.
    -   GTM is showing continued neutrality.
    -   Market-currents showcases mixed data.
    -   LDPM/S for ES and NQ both show a persistent and robust bull trap.
    -   Prudence suggests continued downside overall with continued risk of bull trap
        performance.



                                         SUMMARY



          This week’s performance was erratic in the details despite appearing
          gentle on the surface.

          The consequence of this is a VoEx-spike performance on $SPY and $QQQ
          while VoEx itself remains within the Propagation zone. This gives
          continued “bull trap” interpretations.

          Gamma hedging heatmaps have calmed and showcase diffuse
          purchasing support for both indexes, with $QQQ’s being less populated
          than $SPY’s. Put-selling remains at-zero for $SPY with a small revival of
          performance on $QQQ. MWGS data showcases a steadily rising GS-
          growth rate but one that is still decidedly negative. This corresponds with
          a modest month-over-month increase in gamma squeeze count. During
          this, GTM has remained neutral and shows no conclusive preferences to
          the gamma flows heading towards the market.

          LDPM/S showcase bull-traps for both $SPY and $QQQ.

          Overall, outlook remains the same: in the midsts of a bull trap.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      02/17/2025
                                              DETAILS




Hello all!
As with the usual spirit of Valentine’s day, the spectre of disappointment hangs low as the week
ends in contrast to our expectations – namely with respect to its price action. Specifically, I am
referring to $SPY’s +1.40% move along with $QQQ’s 2.91% move! Prety big numbers, so let’s
compare them with the expectations from last week.

 Symbol             Anticipated         Realized                   Ratio           Difference
                    Move (±%)           Move (%)                   (Real / Ant.)   (%-magnitude)

 $SPY                  1.62                1.40                      0.86           14.57

 $QQQ                  2.10                2.91                      1.38           32.34



Not only did $QQQ move more than the market was expected, as opposed to $SPY’s under-
performance, it did so with a pretty respectable 33% over-shot. We can visualize this movement
in the hedging heatmaps below:




These images conjure even more images, in an almost alarmingly sentient way, of last week’s
Weekly Chat, in which someone of questionable foresight suggested:
                                                  “

  Before we get too comfortable with jumping to the conclusion that this implies our futures
 should be similarly planned, let’s keep in mind that should IV drop substantially on $QQQ, this
                         will introduce some good purchasing support.
                                      “ – Weekly Chat 2025-02-10

After which, with emboldenment, the following:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          02/17/2025
                                                          “
                                  The most likely outcome? Probably not …
                                               “- Weekly Chat 2025-02-10

Well, jokes on past me, because that appears to be what happened! Although admittedly, as the
week progressed, I was less confident that the reduction in IV was going to be sufficient, only to
be reminded of the range of the market’s surprises, as Thursday gave way to a paultry ~10%
reduction in IV.
This brings up a thought: For how much finance folk enjoy comparing the present to the past, I’m
surprised there’s never been an investigation into IV’s movements as there have been with IV, for
instance, what is the standard deviation for a 10% reduction in IV on $QQQ? At least, if there are
those that do this, I have not seen it. So, let’s take a quick peek! I went ahead and calculated the
percent-change from day-to-day for $QQQ’s IV, and then smoothed the data with a 5-day rolling
EMA. From there, I just plotted the distribution of values.
The benefit of doing this is we can very quickly see just how much this week’s IV reduction is with
regards to $QQQ’s previous performance. This can help us answer if the statement “paultry ~10%
reduction in IV” is even valid – perhaps a 10% reduction in IV is quite significant! Below are the
distributions:
                                                          On the left is $QQQ’s data in aggregate, from
                                                          2019-10-14 to present, while on the right is
                                                          $QQQ’s data with the distributions calculated on
                                                          a yearly basis.

                                                          The vertical green line is $QQQ’s current
                                                          aggregate value and the red line is $QQQ’s current
                                                          value when the data are grouped by year.
                                               With this view, we see that the weekly IV move
                                               (smoothed via EMA) was -0.67 for the aggregate
                                               data and -1.25 for the data grouped by year. This
shows us that these moves were pretty smol : in the aggregate data, we can expect a |0.67|-move
about 60% of the time, and for the data grouped by year, we can expect up to a |1.25|-z move
about 90% of the time, with only 10% of the data surpassing the current magnitude-of-change in
magnitude.
So, nope! Perhaps the idea of “significant IV movement needed” was faulty from the start – for if
you I had looked at this kind of distribution prior, perhaps the true magnitude needed would have
been better discerned1.



1
 It is worth keeping in mind when analyzing the put selling data as well! Perhaps there has been a hidden association
not just with the directionality of the put-seller’s expectations but also with the anticipated magnitude of IV change.
For instance, suppose this might help differentiate if or when the put-sellers are ramping up with both a directional
outlook but also perhaps there is discernment with the magnitude-of-[𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] anticipated.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                          02/17/2025
All this to say,

Let’s get started with VoEx




We see a similar sight as from two weeks ago: VoEx-daily has risen sharply into Stability for both
$SPY and $QQQ. This gives a short-term bullish outlook.
The term is short in this case because VoEx itself, both $SPY and $QQQ, are still within the
Propagation Zone, and as such, VoEx-daily’s performance is interpreted as bullish, but of the trap
variety. This outlook will be maintained until either VoEx-daily falls out of stability (suggesting the
end of said bull-trap is neigh) or until VoEx moves out of the Propagation Zone (suggesting the
previously-unstable bullish performance has started to solidify and thus outlooks are bullish).
Thus, we leave to meet the gamma-hedging heatmaps below with renewed senses of BUPO ( of
the bearish variety ) tempered with near-term bull-trap-like VoEx performance. What do we
encounter?




Bullish skies abound! $SPY and $QQQ have shed their dissimilarities and have convened in
agreement on a stable hedging environment with diffuse, local purchasing support.

In terms of shared-pathways towards gamma neutrality, the two share a general [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ]
pathway, with $SPY’s gamma neutral zone harkening hardest for that directionality. The most
proximal and abundant area of gamma neutrality for $QQQ appears to be in the opposite direction,
namely the [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +] direction. Movement in said direction for $QQQ would do little except for
effectively thin out the already-diffuse purchasing support.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            02/17/2025
Taken together, a likely compromise is formed: the hedging environment seems well suited for a
[$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] as long as no one gets too ornery about achieving gamma neutrality and pushes IV into
selling pressure.
Speaking of IV and prices and pushing, let’s see what our put-pushing, put-pushers’s put-pushing
percentages be, perchance:




Uh oh! $QQQ has sprung to life! This is in-line with the expectations for a bull-trap to be underway.
$SPY’s reluctance, as we have seen in the prior iteration, is to be expected. These data suggest
                                                                          𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎
that $QQQ put-sellers are at-least in-part expecting some form of [$+ 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] .

Thus, it seems the seas are still rocky (per VoEx in the Propagation Zone), but the waves seem to
be pushing, yawing us towards the bullish (as per VoEx-daily, a supportive hedging environment
and the inception of put-selling). Let’s take a peek at the MWGS data to see to which depths these
waves can be felt.
On initial glance, the
answer is: not very deep!
Whereas once there was
hope for a rapid increase
in     gamma      squeeze
growth, there is now no
real evidence of that
occurring. While it is true
that has been a 15%
increase      in   gamma
squeeze over the last
month, this has done little
to produce a net-positive
growth rate overall (top
blue line is ~0).
For now, it would appear growth has accelerated sufficiently to continue the current level of
anticipation regarding a resurgence in growth (as thus, downside). Is the anticipation completely
gone? Not quite – but it is certainly not as forte as before.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          02/17/2025
Another near-zero measurement is GTM:
Since ~2025-01-20, GTM has maintained its neutral stance, indicating no real changes in the
                                                directionality of the net gamma. This pre-
                                                standing stance, now being echoed in the
                                                growth rates, suggests a future of casual
                                                inclination and declination.
                                                              Thus, the waves do not seem to have
                                                              extended into the foundational currents just
                                                              yet, but it does appear as though said currents
                                                              seem still.
                                                    In illuminating the room with these data, an
obvious character is revealed before us; a metaphorical elephant representing a concept, in this
case, the concept of a question. What is the question? Likely this one: “shall we abandon our long-
lived anticipation of big downside”? Or something similar.
While convenience dictates that our response should be to simply deїlluminate the room, it would
seem the light switch to do that hasn’t, itself, been illuminated. So, let’s address the elephant: are
the markets turning? How close are we to the boundary of “things are still a bull trap” to “okay,
things look to be improving such that the trap concern itself is diminishing”? To help answer, let’s
expand our view more.
First up, a quick feel of the market overall through the lens of VoEx. This is accomplished with the
Market Currents. But first, let’s hypothecate. Can we generalize any expectations before we look
at the data for the two main directionalities? Sure, why not. Evidence and their relative meanings:

    Indicator              Expected Finding                                    Expected Finding
                              Bull Trap                                       Bull Trap → Bullish

    VoEx        Evidence of Over-exposure in the Predominance of stable-bound VoExes and/or
                Inhibition Zone                     minimal VoExes within the Propagation Zone
                VoEx Spike abundance and generation
                                                    Minimal VoEx spike population and production.
                when $+

    Gamma    Increase                                 Decrease2
    Squeezes
    LDPM     Minimal changes (during the              Modest increase and persistence in bullish
             bullish run) followed by a surge of crossovers
             bearish spikes
             (indicating the nearing end of the trap)




2
  Since the burden of truth here is placed on the claim that the trap aspect of Bull Trap is the faulty aspect, then it
feels better that we should see gamma squeezes decreasing (as opposed to simply just not increasing) as a definitive
showing of data.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                          02/17/2025
Which do we see?




At first glance, the data do not appear to be in one direction or the other. The VoEx for the indexes
are showcasing over-heating (by way of the 8/13 indexes having VoExes within the Inhibition
Zone), while their constituents (whose data are within the Avg. VoEx column) appear to be well
housed within stability. As for VoEx Spikes, it appears there is minimal evidence for more-than-
usual VoEx Spikes ($XLF, $XLI, $XLP, and $XLRE showcasing a small burst of activity but since it
only has 1 `+`, the burst itself does not seem to be very bright). Gamma squeezes show little
activity and LDPM crossovers have demonstrated a relatively small showing of LDPM crossovers
(although, it should be noted, of those, they are predominately bearish).

Thus, the market currents is not quite the smoking that was hoped for; instead, it only
demonstrated the confusion present.
Thus, let’s look at one more data: LDPM/S.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          02/17/2025
On the longest timeframe (987-minute 3) we see that ES (right), conditions have been indicative of
a bear trap since about 2025-01-18ish (when LDPS turns from bearish to bullish after LDPM
becomes a bearish stack), and currently this bull-trap has been testing the organic-LDPMs (5, 6,
7) with the assistance of some lower-order, eager bids. The consequence of this, however, is it
would appear that an ask has started moving in (as evidenced via the simultaneous pointing
upwards of LDPMs). The outlook derived from these data is: bull trap. Frustratingly, however, we
can see that liquidity conditions have not change much despite the price appreciations; the price
is going up but liquidity does not seem to be inverting towards the bullish.
On NQ (right), the data present slightly differently, and which this distinction, comes unfortunate
ambiguity; or, at the very least, disagreement. Whereas LDPS is showcasing bullish liquidity on
NQ, its doing so after LDPMs became “mixed”. LDPM-5 (neon-blue) has sandwiched itself
between LDPM-6 (below) and 7 (above) producing a mixed stack. Had it continued its journey just
a smidgen more, one could be confident in declaring another bull trap – but, since things are
mixed, its more like a “soft” bull trap.

Taken together, LDPM/S4 continue the motto: why won’t you go down?!
Thus, the prudent outlook appears to be that of bearish-with-a-side-of-bullish-action. However,
there does not appear to be sufficient data currently to adopt a fully bullish outlook (or rather, one
that encompasses the notion of a bull trap converting to full bullishness), and so, it appears the
week is left with a purgatory outlook: bullish by way of the trap but bearish by way of providence.
Hopefully the data will clear up in the next day or so and a clearer image forms.


Happy Trading,


Justin




3
 This is ~16.50 hours.
4
 Quick note on other timeframes: The daily is similar; mixed stack with bullish liquidity for ES, NQ on the daily
shows a fuller conversion to a true bull trap showing. The weekly is ostensibly bullish with LDPM-5 providing
organic bid for ES at ~$5,900 (

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                         02/17/2025
