                                  Weekly Chat 2024-12-23


                                         Main Points



    -   VoEx-daily has spiked into the Propagation Zone on $QQQ and $SPY.
    -   Hedging environments offer similar configurations as last week with local purchasing
        support and near-by, spot-down selling pressure.
    -   Put-selling remains near-zero with slight negative values noted on $QQQ.
    -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data (MWGS) is showing a sudden flare of activity and a
        deepening, negative GTM.
    -   LDPM showcases a potential support 3% down on the daily interval with the next
        support noted 20% down.
    -   Overall strong bearish leanings with potential for market correction brewing.

                                         SUMMARY



          Last week, there was some concern regarding mean reversion and the
          current market-environment such activity would find itself in.

          This week, VoEx presents with movement of its daily computations into
          the Propagation Zone, indicative of immediate and near-term downside
          expectations. VoEx remains within Stability which works to lessen the
          extant expectations’ magnitude.

          Put-selling remains minimal, despite the recent recent dip and IV increase;
          a relatively strong showing of weak support.

          The MWGS data shows a rapidly accelerating growth curve with a
          deepening GTM; indicating a flow of short gamma towards the market
          even as the gamma squeezes themselves increase.

          Taken together, these data paint bearish outlooks.

          For price movement, expectations lay between -3% (per LDPM on the Daily
          for $ES), and -20% (per LDPM on the Weekly for $ES).

          Prudence lays on the former while VoEx remains within Stability but will
          likely find better comfort on the latter should VoEx abandon post.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      12/23/2024
                                                       DETAILS




Wowza!
Last week, we left off with the idea that the spectre of ~mean reversion~ was nearby and eager
to chat, and that concurrently, conditions suggested a near-term dip was brewing. In combination,
there was consideration regarding a lil’ dip and subsequent rip.
Well, as we can see below the market did indeed dip!




A dip of the highest calibre1!
One of the first things I’m noticing, (here and in general since our recent conversation regarding
“directionaless” hedging ) is that $QQQ did follow our predictions: movement up and to the right,
stretching towards gamma neutrality, only to find o floor beneath its feet. In reflection, I was
pondering this new idea for awhile when I realized - that’s exactly what should be happening!
It’s just that, somewhere along the line, that simple fact eluded me: market makers want to hedge
not for hedging’s sake in and of itself, but rather to achieve neutrality. So – above we see just
that! A long reach northwards for $QQQ into gamma neutrality which coincided with the need for
purchasing support (mean reversion, etc. etc.)! I guess its just been a minute since we’ve seen
hedging activity so active in seeking neutrality!
How cool.
In nerd terms, $SPY moved -2.16% while $QQQ moved -2.24%; on the surface these seem rather
in-line, but if we check below the surface (say, sub-surface), does this hold up?
Yes – both EPRs (for $SPY and $QQQ) were around ~1.50%, and so both $QQQ and $SPY
experienced similar absolute and relative movements.
Neato!



1
    Someone of your caliber doesn’t need me to translate this.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       12/23/2024
But, as usual with such big moves, now’s time to buckle in and determine if the market will supply
us with the rip after the dip, or if said providers of said “RIP” will be us unto the market. Let’s find
out!

Teehee the market’s gone
Starting as usual with VoEx:




Now, on first glance this may very-well seem like a disastrously bearish print, but, if you pause
and reflect, then upon second, third, and even fourth glance, you may very-well come to the same
conclusion.

VoEx-daily has diven2 significantly rapidly, and fiercely, into the Propagation Zone – this suggests
that downside will continue. For now, said downside does still seem “limited” in its magnitude;
such that VoEx itself is still within Stability – however, as the expected downside progresses,
keeping an eye out on VoEx will be vital - for without the presence of such an assurance, the
downside time-horizon becomes tricky to discern as it stretches out.
So, overall, bearish takes from VoEx and VoEx-daily until either decides to relinquish their
presence for their respective thrones, with subsequent bearish or bullish outlooks to replace them
in their stead, respectively.
Moving onwards and upwards (but in this case, downwards) we arrive at the Gamma Hedging
Heatmaps for $SPY (left) and $QQQ (right).




2
    When one has driven and dove simultaneously.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            12/23/2024
In both cases we see a similar orientation as before; a ridge dividing selling pressure from
purchasing support, with only a small movement in spot separating reality from a transition to
selling pressure.

In terms of gamma neutral spots, both contain similar orientations with neutrality located either
[$-, IV-] or [$+, IV+]. Supposing this is a market in which we are likely to find an increase in the
aggressiveness of hedging3, this leaves the market in an awkward spot of choosing between two
unusual configurations (one may well be reminded as to the consequences of said decision in
$QQQ’s hedging heatmap from last week!).

So, in much the same vein: the hedging environment is relatively supportive in the event of a [$-,
IV+] week but keeping an eye out for [$+, IV+] movements (especially on $QQQ), which may
foretell similar behavior as last week.
Significant spot-down without reasonable IV-increase should also be monitored, for since an
aggressive move down for both $SPY and $QQQ without concurrent IV-increase would introduce
significant selling pressure that is likely directed, opinionated and eager.
Moving onwards, let’s check out our put-selling-friends:




3
 You can usually bank (heh – cause finance) on hedging becoming more “directed, opinionated, and eager” the
more directed, opinionated and eager the market’s moves are.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                  12/23/2024
It would seem they left without telling us! A familiar event but somewhat disappointing all the
same.
It would seem there are no lofty ideas regarding profitability in selling volatility or spot. Perhaps
they find the risk too great!
Thankfully, we have other, more important and fancy parties to attend. Namely, the Market-Wide
Gamma Squeeze Gala, which we can visit below 4.

Stepping onto the carpet, we see first up is the eloquent Madame Croissance in the top panel,
                                                  showcasing a stunning growth rate in gamma
                                                  squeezes.
                                                          Gorgeous.
                                                          Such a growth rate is bound to be the result of
                                                          the 15% increase in week-over-week gamma
                                                          squeezes (reaching a peak of 45% growth on
                                                          Tuesday!).
                                                          This growth follows the illustrious trend setter
                                                          that is Le Chassuer de Gamma Squeezes : GTM
                                                          who has been serving negativity since 2024-07
                                                          (last season), with particular deepening
                                                          starting around 2024-10.

                                                          As gamma squeezes grow and GTM deepens,
                                                          this suggests continued erosion of one of the
                                                          foundational metrics used to gauge overall
                                                          market stability, and one of the reasons we
                                                          have thusfar been limiting most of our
                                                          downside views to the local and nearby.
                                                          In short: the expectation is that gamma
                                                          squeezes will continue to grow as there has
                                                          been minimal evidence of long gamma flowing
                                                          towards the market in recent times, all-the-
                                                          while more gamma squeezes are birthed into
                                                          existence.
                                                     This highlights VoEx-daily’s interpretation of
the recent instability: things are getting close to ~danger zone~.
But for now, until VoEx itself stays within stability, preparation for a down then up seems
reasonable.




4
    Just act like you know someone and keep busy, no one knows who’s who here.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                               12/23/2024
Thus, the outlook does indeed look bearish. In terms of downside targets, last week we
entertained the idea of ~2.5% - 4.0% movements, and in checking with LDPM on #ES (balanced
setting), it seems like re-defining the target is a bit tricky; I’ll let you see for yourself:




On the daily timeframe we see LDPM-610 is still present at ~5.8k (currently about -3% away from
us), and historically this has provided a good floor (see August 2024), and so that initially seems
like a good place to land.
But, should the market not be satisfied with a meager 3% offering (for instance, August’s fall down
to LDPM-610 was ~-9%!), then another floor should be found. To do this, we gotta move up the
timeframes, and so, let’s check out the weekly interval for $ES:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        12/23/2024
Well – That’s not too good – we see a rather large Aggressive Ask Cascade forming on the weekly
interval !
This means that on the Weekly Interval, there is no floor! If we move up one more level to the
monthly interval, we arrive at this view:




Which showcases a floor all the way at LDPM-144 (neon-blue) at ~$5,000! That’s a hefty ~20%
drop! For now, thankfully, despite the Weekly AAC, liquidity conditions remain bullish for the
weekly and monthly intervals, but this is an overall concerning configuration to find the market in.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         12/23/2024
So, all-in-all, it appears a spicey market is forming on the horizon with turbulent seas hencethither,
suggestive of a 3% decline to LDPM-610 on the Daily interval, and should the seas continue to
worsen, then an anticipation of a 20% decline thereafter.

It will be pivotal to keep an eye out on the hedging behaviors and overall price : IV relationship,
along with ensuring VoEx stays out of the Propagation Zone.
Potentially fun times ahead!


Happy Trading,



Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           12/23/2024
Nerd alert update
So, the dashboard is coming along fine – fine I said!
But I wanted to showcase an exciting change from a top-level view.
First, take note of the repo for the current dashboard:




Yes, oo and aaa at the majesty that is R.
But look at the new version!




Oo ya – she’s fast!


Soon!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                       12/23/2024
