                                  Weekly Chat 04/29/2024


                                        Main Points


    -   VoEx has responded to the recent price action by moving towards the Inhibition Zone.
    -   Hedging environments are supportive for continued bounce, and provide a pathway
        towards $+/IV- and support in the case of $-.
    -   Put sellers are present but less active than “normal”.
    -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data shows a reduction in gamma squeezes and positive
        GTM prints.
    -   VoEx Variance is no longer printing data within the Propagation Zone.
    -   Continued outlook for bullish performance in the near-term with continued expectation
        for longer-term downside.

                                         SUMMARY



          Last week’s green performance left $SPY and $QQQ’s VoEx moving
          towards “spike-like” territory on both VoExes. This behavior continues to
          nod towards a bull-trap as VoEx-trend (or just VoEx for neo-VoEx) has
          remained within the Propagation Zone.

          Hedging environments demonstrate a supportive arena with a pathway
          towards $+/IV- available to the market, and purchasing support in the case
          of $- for both $SPY and $QQQ.

          Put-selling is present but, perhaps moot; nonetheless, increased activity
          brings with it an increase in bullish ideologies.

          Gamma squeeze data throughout the market is showing a slow but steady
          decrease in gamma squeezes, and along with a GTM print that is
          continuing its slow march into positive territory.

          VoEx Variance produced no additional data within the Propagation Zone,
          an unexpected turn-of-events.

          Overall, continued outlook for bullish performance on the near-term with
          continued medium-term bearish concerns.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     04/29/2024
                                            DETAILS




Heyo gang! Last week, we left off with the idea that the bounce was bouncing, and perhaps we
should bounce as well.
Despite some early-week-turbulence, things ended off with $SPY up 0.59%, and $QQQ up $1.03%.
So, much like last week, this week, our task is straight-forward: does the data point up or down?
Let’s see if we can find out!

Data
To get started, unlike usual, let’s take a moment to look at last week’s $SPY’s movements:




Pretty boring! Let’s instead take a peek at $QQQ’s movement through the Gamma Hedging
environment with our first peek at the updated heatmap!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      04/29/2024
                                 Last Friday ended with immediate signs of trouble for
                                 $QQQ with full selling pressure located in every direction!
                                 Not too good.




                                 Monday ended with only a small move – perhaps aided by
                                 the intra-day transition from selling pressure to purchasing
                                 support, as can be seen with the difference in hedging
                                 environments from the day prior. Quite the dramatic
                                 transformation overall.
                                 Spot-down danger was still very present, however, with the
                                 purchasing support only providing a narrow reprieve from
                                 more selling pressure located around ~$430.



                                 Tuesday did not waste any time in taking advantage of said
                                 selling pressure, with a single-day loss of 1.89%. The
                                 benefit, if there is one, is that this brought down-stream
                                 purchasing support into view.




                                 On Wednesday, as $QQQ was ending within selling
                                 pressure, directly before close (the last 30minutes) saw a
                                 massive price drawdown!
                                 Coincidentally, this drawdown brought $QQQ immediately
                                 into purchasing support (and, advantageously, it seems
                                 one of the darker blue squares in the area!), upon which it
                                 rested its head for the night.




                                 Said purchasing support, along with some early-morning
                                 lack of liquidity, helped facilitate a pre-market move of
                                 almost 1.28%, helping $QQQ end up for the day (and
                                 week!).



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  04/29/2024
See? Told you $SPY’s Heatmaps were, in comparison, rather boring! Well – the original version
was. Let’s look at the updated version from last week!




Oo! It’s quite different! Last Friday, per this map, demonstrates a pretty robust purchasing “ridge”
that seems to have kept things decently “in check” on $SPY.
Pretty nifty! We’ll talk more about them later, for now, let’s pick back up with VoEx:




Lately we’ve been besieged with a hesitant VoEx, who has participated in multiple stops at the
Propagation Line recently. The last of such occurrences precedented movement into the
Propagation Zone, but this time, it seems movement is in the opposite direction for $SPY:
movement towards the Inhibition Zone. This is a vote towards “continued run”.

$QQQ is in much the same and-then-
some, as usual:
Naturally, not to be out-done by $SPY,
$QQQ’s movement is more defined and
opinionated, with swift movement directly
to the Inhibition Line?
So, perhaps, not quite that opinionated.
Nonetheless, the message seems clear:
things are starting to over-heat.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           04/29/2024
Let’s take a peek at the neo-VoExes to see what they say.
VoEx within the Propagation Zone for both while VoEx-
daily has moved rapidly into “Stability”.
A classic sign of a bull-trap!
(I suppose we can start “classifying” some neo-VoEx
insights such as this one. Let’s consider any price-
movement as a “Bull Trap” whenever VoEx-daily moves
into Stability while VoEx itself is inside of the Propagation
Zone).
So, all four VoExes seem to agree: high risk for continued
upside but the overall trajectory is still bearish.
Up next, let’s peruse the current Hedging Environments. In
doing so, let’s take an official gamble on the new
Heatmaps, and see how they fare in the week ahead!
Below, we see said heatmaps.

                                                          Quite the nice arrangement for bullish activity! A
                                                          “purchasing ride” provides upstream purchasing
                                                          support along with downstream purchasing
                                                          support – so long as IV doesn’t get too high.
                                                          This is a reminiscent set-up for $SPY from last
                                                          week1; during which, one will remember, the
                                                          movement was largely flat (overall).
                                                          This is in-line with our sentiment reasonably well,
                                                          so, let’s adopt it: the hedging environments are
                                                          conducive to a flat-to-green week, however this
                                                          benefit will fade as IV+.

                                                          Up next, let’s take a peek at the DLPs to see how
                                                          our overlords are feeling:




1
    It might be worthwhile to keep track of the “convexity” of these ridges.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                  04/29/2024
Largely luke-warm still, although it would appear some activity is piquing $SPY’s constituents –
the notoriously more-confident and, dare we say, timely group, of the pair.

Gamma squeeze data is largely the same (not shown); GTM is sneaking its way northward while
gamma squeezes decreased 10% week-over-week. These moves sound cheery, and I suppose
they are, but they lack the bombastic showings typically seen before more sturdy recoveries, of
which, one of the consequences for me is less dopamine which, in turn, limits my optimism
thereupon said activity.

So, it would seem that “bullish but likely trap” seems to be the overall state of things. But - before
making the final decision, let’s take a quick peek at VoEx Variance to see how the data are
progressing.

                                                       No more data within the Propagation Zone
                                                       for this week!
                                                       A curious development – not unheard of (if
                                                       you look ~01/2020), but not the expected
                                                       outcome for sure.
                                                       Perhaps another nod towards bullish
                                                       performance, but I am not wholly convinced
                                                       that this disintegrates prior anticipations
                                                       (namely that of prolonged downside).
                                                       Thus, it seems another green-to-flat week is
                                                       ahead, but, this time, with a potential
                                                       clearing of the skies. The outcome is
                                                       continued reduction in the shorter-tenure
                                                       shorts while strategically scalping longs
                                                       throughout the week seems the plan in
preparation for the next leg down.
Happy Trading –
Justin



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           04/29/2024
