                                     Weekly Chat 11/27/2023


                                          Main Points


   -   The data remain largely unchanged from the week prior.
   -   VoEx is still showing Bullish-until-proven-otherwise (BUPO).
   -   Put-selling has predominately ceased.
   -   Gamma-squeeze growth is positive and the overall growth-trend is pointed towards
       positivity.
   -   Overall, BUPO reigns until VoEx says otherwise.

                                            SUMMARY

           The short week brought with it: not much.

           The data remain largely unchanged from last week: VoEx is suggestive
           of BUPO; DLP selling is moot; and gamma squeezes aren’t doing much
           (but seem still poised to enter into a growth-phase).

           Overall, this makes for an easy week of interpretation as VoEx is
           suggesting BUPO is the most reasonable outlook until its not (i.e.: A
           VoEx Spike or VoEx Divergence occurs).

           So, until then, BUPO (of the Bullish variety), and chill.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  11/27/2023
                                             DETAILS




Hello everyone!
A very short week and an even shorter Weekly Chat lays a head of us, as we only have 2 more
additional day’s worth of data to ponder.
Last week-ish, the idea was to maintain BUPO (of the Bullish variety), but with growing caution
that the “proven otherwise” part might be nearing. In support of this view, $SPY moved 0.94% in
the bullish direction, while $QQQ mustered a +1.04% move.
Thus – it seems BUPO is playing out just fine for now, so let’s see how the future looks.
Somethingsomething future something

$SPY’s VoEx is showing BUPO (of the Bullish variety) still as VoEx maintains its stay within the
Inhibition Zone.




$QQQ’s is similar, with continued stay within the I.Z.:




These presentations give credence to maintain BUPO (of the Bullish variety).


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       11/27/2023
Curiously, if we look at the rest of the market via the Marke Currents PDF, we see that the
majority of the market is also in BUPO (of the Bullish variety):




This “Bullish-but-unstable” behavior seen throughout the market may be a tad heavy on the “but-
unstable” part, as our resident put-sellers are still not interested in placing their bets just yet, as
witnessed by both $SPY and $QQQ experiencing persistent declines in put-selling.

Not even the prospect of an extended theta-burn-weekend seems to have been sufficient to
rouse the put-sellers.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            11/27/2023
Gamma flows are showing positive growth is brewing, with the gamma-squeeze growth rate
(gold line), breeching into positive territory – sufficient enough to bring the growth-trend (black
line) back towards positive territory again.




This suggests gamma squeeze creation is now eclipsing their destruction.
So, overall, a quick week and a quick Weekly Chat as not much has changed.
Predominately, the stance is BUPO (of the Bullish Variety) but this outlook seems to be slowly
eroding away as gamma squeezes hint at returning to a net-growth-state (which is Bearish for
the market), and our put-selling-friends don’t see enticed to sell puts.
But, until VoEx changes its mind on BUPO, BUPO it is.
(of the Bullish variety).
Happy trading –
Justin


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        11/27/2023
