                                   Weekly Chat 2024-10-28


                                         Main Points



    -   VoEx-daily has fallen out of stability, indicating imminent downside. VoEx remains
        within stability, however, shortening expected time-horizon for the downside.
    -   Heatmaps are weak but technically supportive with local purchasing support.
    -   Put-selling has seen a large increase on $QQQ.
    -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data shows gamma squeeze growth
        accelerating with GTM printing negative outlooks.
    -   Overall, downside is expected with a near-term time horizon in so long as VoEx remains
        within Stability.

                                         SUMMARY



           After some awkward movement throughout the week, conditions have
           become bearish.

           VoEx-daily has moved into the Propagation Zone for $SPY, and has even
           moved just-shy thereof on $QQQ. Hedging environments are technically
           bullish but show diminishing purchasing support should IV rise, limiting
           the effectiveness of an already-sparse purchasing support.

           Put-selling has increased rapidly and drastically on $QQQ – however,
           given the current data, our traditional jubilatory response is now a more
           muted, polite, nod of acknowledgement.

           Looking at ES on the daily, an aggressive LDPS shows migration towards
           the bid. In conjunction with the data above, this gives a reasonable
           downside target of $5,600 whereat LDPM-610 looks poised to offer its
           organic bid as support.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     10/28/2024
                                              DETAILS




Hello all!


Last week, we left off with bullish ideologies and, apparently, without reading the Weekly Chat, the
market did not receive the message. This miscommunication resulted in $SPY dipping slightly to
the tune of -0.95%, while $QQQ -0.17%.
We can see this awkward movement throughout the week below in the heatmaps:




On both $SPY and $QQQ we see the market’s push downwards was unphased by the presence of
purchasing support, ultimately leading to some unusual trajectories.
So, this week, let’s check in on some items we put a tack in a while ago and see if there is anything
potentially brewing behind this red week and odd weekly movement!

Watch your step!
Starting as usual with VoEx, we notice:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          10/28/2024
Oh that is some very potent reminiscence of 2024-07! VoEx-daily has continued its descent in
spectacular fashion on $SPY. Currently, VoEx-daily’s position on $SPY suggests that $QQQ’s will
follow suit – a plunge into the propagation zone.

And this means downside; near-term downside, in so long as VoEx itself stays within stability –
so keeping an eye on VoEx on Monday will be very important.
So, with near-term downside in mind, let’s see how conditions might respond within the hedging
environment:




From there, let’s take a quick peek at the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data; an activity
yo we have been negligent on as of late:
                                                  For the first time in awhile we see some
                                                  reasonable growth in the gamma-squeeze
                                                  counts. Over the past month, gamma squeeze
                                                  amounts have risen ~13%, 12 of those 13%1
                                                  manifested over the past week.
                                                  This growth has been enough to bring the growth
                                                  rate into positive territory overall – and, it would
                                                  seem in conjunction GTM has printed a
                                                  reasonable negative print.
                                                  This suggests a flow of short-gamma heading to
                                                  the market – these usually take about 2 – 4
                                                  weeks to manifest.




The result is an increase in gamma squeezes, which, as an extension of the individual
consequence, the aggregate consequence is market downside.




1
 That may not be how math works; Month-over-month gamma squeeze change: 13%; Week-over-Week change:
12%.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           10/28/2024
Coincidentally, this 2 – 4 week timeframe coincides once again with the SNAP graphs!
Coincidence!
Overall, this paints a turbulent future for the market as the short gamma’s influence ramps up.
Next up, our put-selling friends:




Oh my! Look who has finally decided to show up – our $QQQ put-selling friends!

Well – this might be awkward. Normally, we would jump at the opportunity for confluence with
our long-lost financial overlord-friends, but alas, the data is not on their side this time!
VoEx has indicated downside, hedging environments are “weak”, and gamma squeezes seem to
be popping back up!
Not the exact environment I would want to sell puts in, but, given their track-record, perhaps a
small portion of possibility can be earmarked for their success.

Lastly, we can peek LDPM and LDPS for ES on the daily timeframe with LDPS set on Aggressive.
This paints the following picture:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       10/28/2024
Of note is that LDPM-144 (neon-blue) has still refused to un-mix itself. Additionally, LDPS is
showing transactions occurring mainly between the Mid and the Bid, with liquidity flowing
towards the bid.

These are bearish prints!
Downside in the early part of the week to LDPM-144 and LDPM-377 would indicate, for me,
movement rapidly towards LDPM-610 (orange line) at 5,500-ish.
Extending from there produces a lean towards bullish resolution thereafter (given that VoEx is
within stability) but naturally conditions would have to be monitored should said eventuality
impose.
So, overall, quite the showing of bearish prints a bound, and therein a spring of bearish outlooks
is found.
Should downside occur, the normal course of monitoring will kick in to ensure our “isolation to
near-term downside” theory holds true (i.e.: Ensure VoEx doesn’t move into the Propagation Zone,
LDPM/S don’t deviate from “bear trap” configuration, LDPM-610 “holds fast”, etc. etc.).
Maybe it will get interesting !
Happy Trading,



Justin


Also – ps: More updates are coming to LDPS, LDPM, and the Liquidity Trading Algorithm(!) in the
next week. I’ll release patch notes when the changes come through!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       10/28/2024
