                                      Weekly Chat 2025-12-08


                                             Main Points



       -   VoEx remains in the P.Z., while VOEx-daily appears to be terminating in its spike’s
           apex.
       -   The gamma-hedging heatmaps showcase a stable environment with $SPY
           surrounded by selling pressure and $QQQ by purchasing support in similar fashion
           to last week.
       -   The MWGS data show minimal GS growth with continued expectations of future
           abundance.
       -   LS&T analysis is complex and shows minimal supportive evidence for bullish
           outlooks but sufficiently supportive evidence for spot-support which curtails
           downside expectations but does not remove them.
       -   Overall, the week ahead seems filled with more chop and the ultimate resolution
           still appears to be towards the downside.

                                              SUMMARY


           Last week the overall outlook was bullish along with a high risk of chop. In
           response, $SPY chopped while $QQQ experience bullish flows.

           In response, VoEx-daily appears to have terminated its VoEx-daily spike,
           suggesting we should await its return into the Propagation Zone. VoEx has
           remained largely unphased with VoEx-daily’s excursion as it maintains its
           relatively deep place in the P.Z., indicating medium-and-long term outlooks
           remain bearish.

           The gamma-hedging heatmaps show a similar set up to last week: stable
           orientations without evidence of a gamma-neutral zone. $SPY has once again
           local selling pressure while $QQQ experiences local purchasing support. A
           reasonable showing of anticipated chop.

           The predictive market-wide gamma squeeze data are cooling off slightly but still
           indicate a future with a greater number of gamma squeezes than present which
           is a bearish finding.

           LS&T analysis showcases a more-complex-than-usual picture that showcases
           numerous organic LT resistances and evidence of diminishing bullish support.
           Despite this, liquidity remains bullish and LT supports, diminished as they may be,
           are still present.

           Overall, expected chop until the last of the bullish liquidity is siphoned away,
           leaving only downside as the only path forward.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                  2025-12-01 to 2025-12-05
                                              DETAILS




Hello all!
Before we dive into the weekly chat, some exciting news to share with you!
    1- The webserver is completed! Remember way back when, when we were reminiscing about
       API and data access? Well – it’s coming! I’m going to test it with initially handling just VoEx
       graphs, which will be accessible at (2).
    2- New discord! There’s a new, better and improved discord, whose admittance I am only
       sharing with you, my dear premium members. In this new discord there are:
           a. alerts that come from the Liquidity Toolkit (which you should have been given
               access to – if not, let me know!) [TV Link],
           b. a VoEx channel to request VoEx graphs in (!), and
           c. a growing and vibrant community.
       I don’t have the link for you just yet – I am setting up the bots and whatnot so that when
       you get added, you get all the fun permissions. As soon as I have the link, I’ll send it on
       your way.
    3- Old discord : the other side of the coin is that the old (current) discord will be put out of
       commission. I’m not sure yet about the date but it is going to be reasonably soon / after
       you all receive your new links.
The best news from all this is that things are moving forward nicely! This new webserver / api
server is the bridge that takes us across many currently impassable rivers. I’ll keep you all
updated!

Hello all, again!
Last week, we had net bullish ideations with soft temperaments of “choppy and flat” – well, on
average (between $SPY and $QQQ) only. The reason behind the “on average” qualifier may seem
reasonable if we consider that $SPY moved 0.34% while $QQQ moved 1.01% but it becomes
obvious when we look at the gamma-hedging heatmaps below:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2025-12-01 to 2025-12-05
The week started out, it seems, with both indexes capitulating to the $SPY selling pressure,
bringing things down to purchasing support, after which both recovered but with noticeable
differences in both total-amount-recovered and the environment through which the indexes
traveled. Pretty neat!
This week, we should look around us to see if it looks like more ~bounce~ is incoming or if
downside is starting to look evermore promising.

Looking down on promise
Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




That’s quite the VoEx-daily spike on both $SPY and $QQQ! Well – almost, technically (and I
suppose we should be technical) there should be some evidence of VoEx-daily returning back to
the P.Z. for it to be really considered a VoEx-daily spike but its pretty close to this step it seems!
This brings into question any continued bullish expectations on the near-term. On the not-near-
term, VoEx has so far failed to leave the Propagation Zone, despite VoEx-daily’s recent and
multiple instances. This brings with it visions of downside.
Thus, it seems the first-pass answer to our question is straightforward: near-term expectations
are back towards the downside, ajoining the longer-term outlooks therein.
Moving onwards, let’s check in on the gamma-hedging heatmaps to see to which direction the
scales might be tipped by our friendly, neighbor-hood options dealers:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2025-12-01 to 2025-12-05
Very similar set up to last week!

$SPY and $QQQ both have up-stream ($+ ) selling pressure and down-stream ($− ) selling
pressure, yet, in solidarity with their predecessors, $SPY has elected to surround itself with said
selling pressure whereas $QQQ has chosen purchasing support. In sum it appears downside wins
again, especially if we consider last week to be of any precedent ourselves.
The good news is that the threat of substantial downside might be mitigated some given the
robust, down-stream purchasing support.
Moving onwards to the market-wide gamma data, we find [not pictured] minor growth in the
gamma counts. The predictive data show a continued expectation of a larger-than-present
amount of gamma squeezes in the future due to the PCC being positive (The Predictive Count
Curve; brown-orange). The purple line (the Predictive Growth Curve) remains negative, suggesting
that the expected change in the PCC for the future is downwards.




In other words: there is still an expectation of a greater number of gamma squeezes in the future
than today, but the amount increase is slated to be less than the amount increase we are currently
seeing.
Overall, not bullish per-se but it does give us our first macro-print that the threat of upcoming not-
near-term downside is diminishing somewhat.
Moving onwards, let’s check in on the LS&T data. And – well. It’s messy! I annotated the key parts,
and let’s dissect each one.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2025-12-01 to 2025-12-05
First up, the 90-minute chart in the upper-left. To note, the recent performance showcases the
development of an organic ask (LT5[144]). From this view, we can see recent attempts at over-
taking LT5. When looking to see what is fueling these failed attempts at over-taking LT5, we only
see an under-current of eager bid keeping price afloat (and eager parties are notoriously
ineffective against organics!). This, in the near-term, is bullish in that LS is bullish but the proximal
ceiling is $5.00 north at LT5, which is an organic! Thus, expect choppy action until break away
from LT5 from this view.

On the 144-minute (top-left) we see the remains of an aggressive bid cascade that helped usher
along the then-on-going bulltrap. This seems to have provided enough oomph to get through LT6
but insufficient to overtake the combination of the wave (profit-taking) and the LT7 organic
ceiling. Since attempting to overtake LT7, liquidity has deteriorated and become bearish. LT5
looks to be acting essentially as the support and the eager-bids have collapsed suggesting that
bullish liquidity is unlikely to find much continued support (the collapsed eager bids down to the
organic suggest the tank of bids “reaching up” to the ask is essentially empty. This paints LT5’s
recent upwards trajectory as a transition from an organic bid to an organic ask rather than
movement towards spot for support (that’s to say – LTs movement towards spot is in itself
already a sign of robust support. As the organic bid is siphoned to support spot, and the organic
measured at LT5 diminishes, it starts migrating towards the organic ask! Thus, by the time it
arrives under spot, its already “given” all of its available bullish liquidity and thus will simply walk
over spot as its metamorphosis to an organic ask is complete).
By the time we arrive at the 987-minute [bottom-left], we can already see things are quite weakly
bullish but not definitively bearish per se – whereas the signs of significant resistance is present,
the net result is still a bullish liquidity on the 90-minute and allegedly-supportive LTs below spot


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                 2025-12-01 to 2025-12-05
on the 144-minute (although slightly neutralized given the bearish liquidity, which tells us a test
of the LT supports is incoming).
It is at the 987-minute that things start to get interesting, as we start seeing competing aggressive
agents (very unusual!) starting to battle it out. This is first observed with the interruption of the
“scoop” following the Aggressive Ask Cascade that occurred in mid-novemeber. The interruption
came by way of an aggressive bid cascade, who, much like its 144-minute counterpart, sufficed
only to bring spot up to the LT resistance (this time LT5, not LT7) without a successful crossover.
This is relatively bearish as well! Aggressive bid cascades are known for their, well, aggressive
tactics in absorbing the underlying. If we assume this to be true here, then it suggests that the
aggressive bid (the most willing party to move up to the ask to transact) entered and was
observable on the 987-minute interval and still was insufficient to over-take the already-present
organic ask measured by LT5. That suggests LT5 has quite the ask present to absorb all of the
aggressive bid! As this is occurring, we can see the tug-of-war within LS as well, with the 987-
minute LS oscillating back and forth between bullish and bearish.
Again – not normal!
The take-home here is much like before: the main evidence for bearish downside is the absolute
lack of overt bullish LS&T data and the significant headwinds being noted on all intervals.
On the 1-Week view, we see bullish liquidity resting on LT5 (as it has been for awhile now!) with
evidence of a growing take-profit crowd (note LT4’s sudden and rapid turn northward! This is
highly indicative of a rapid conversion from a bid to an ask). Overall, liquidity is bullish on the
weekly view, and so we can say “current bullish liquidity is withholding” but this begs the question:
for how much longer?
That’s difficult to say but we can certainly observe that there is growing evidence of a growing
ask in the market (via the onset of organic ask LT ceilings and bearish liquidity), with potentially
more to come (via the gamma-hedging heatmap’s identification of $+ selling pressure).
Thus, the name of the game seems to be: the music is still playing, but if you look closely, it looks
like the DJ just smirked – so it might be time to start eyeing up your target chair for when the
music stops!
In short, still looks rocky, no super-overt signs of bullish anticipations but sufficiently present
supportive indications to starve off imminent downside. This gives way to continued visions of
chop for the week, with ultimate, longer-term resolution still pointing towards the downside.
Next week, we’ll talk more about the new discord and VoEx-query capabilities!
Happy Trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2025-12-01 to 2025-12-05
