                                          Quick-Start Guide
                                        LDPS Trading Robot




       The Liquidity Trading Algorithm (the Robot) is only for educational and
     research purposes. Any signals or indications produced by the Robot only
      serve to hypothetical trades as determined by algorithmic review of the
                                underlying security.
    Although possible, it is neither recommended, encouraged, suggested, nor
       permissible to provide this robot with access to a non-paper-trading
                                       account.
    Deep Dive Stocks is both unable and unwilling to provide any assurances or
    guarantees to the veracity, eﬃcacy or validity of the output provided by the
                                     Robot.


                                               DISCLAIMER

   Deep Dive Stocks is not an investment advisor. The information contained in this primer is
   intended only for educational purposes to highlight the applicability of VoEx in a variety of
   hypothetical portfolio styles. No information here is intended to be offered or construed as
   individual investment advice, targeted investment advice, or any investment advice aimed at any
   one person or persons, portfolio or portfolios, objective or objectives. It is important to remember
   that past performance does not beget future performance and there is always risk in investing in
   the market.
                                      Deep Dive Stocks, LCC © 2023




LDPS Trading Robot – Quick Setup Guide                                                                    1|9
                                           Getting Started
                                    Adding LTA Robot to Chart
    To add the LTA Robot to a TradingView Chart, go to Indicators → Invite-only Scripts and
    select LDPSD Robot – ALPHA.
       -   When you add the LTA Robot to the chart, you will see the “Strategy Tester” tab
           pop up on your chart.




           This will display the information about your robot’s performance throughout the
           trading interval (which can be changed in the settings, described below). There
           are three tabs on this part of the screen:

              o Performance Summary: this will give you various metrics about the robots
                performance
              o List of Trades: lists the trades, you can click on the crosshair image to
                show that trade on the chart.
              o Properties: lists the variables that are set for the robot.
                                       Initial Conﬁgurations
    Several initial conﬁgurations need to be input in order to calibrate the robot.
    Initial Conﬁgurations - Share-Sizing
    There are two share-sizing algorithms / trading styles.
       -   Fixed-Share: this technique trades a set-amount of shares. The value is set with
           the “Maximum Contract Count” setting.
              o This technique does not require a “Initial Capital” to be entered other than
                  to keep track of performance.
       -   Fixed-Percent: this technique uses a user-supplied ﬁxed-percentage of available
           balance in order to determine the number of shares to trade.



LDPS Trading Robot – Quick Setup Guide                                                        2|9
               o Setting the “Activate a Share-Max” setting with the Fixed-Percent algorithm
                 will set a maximum number of shares / contracts that can be open at any
                 given time.
    The ﬁxed-share technique is a ﬁxed-risk technique while the ﬁxed-percent technique is a
    variable-risk technique.
    Initial Conﬁgurations – Activate a Share-Max
    Select an appropriate maximum share amount for the trading strategy. If not desired,
    uncheck the “Activate a Share-Max” box within Settings.
       -   This is required for the Fixed-Share trading algorithm – it will be the number of
           shares that the robot can use to trade.
       -   If activated for the Fixed-Percent trading algorithm, it will impose a maximum
           number of shares / contracts that are allowed to be open at any given time.
    Initial Conﬁgurations – Initial Capital & Portfolio Utilization
    Set an appropriate initial capital and how much of the available capital to use when
    determining position sizing.
       -   Not required for the Fixed-Share trading algorithm unless you want to keep track
           of hypothetical portfolio’s performance.
       -   Required for the Fixed-Percentage trading algorithm and will determine how many
           shares can be traded. This value does not include margin.
    Initial Conﬁgurations – Stop Loss
    Sets up the Stop Loss. If not desired, uncheck the “Include Stop-Loss” box within Settings.
       -   There is an estimated stop-loss amount from the Parameter Data Table.

           The trading robot has an algorithm that determines a reasonable stop-loss for
           the given equity and timeframe under investigation. This value is displayed in the
           Parameter Data Table in the “Est. Stop-Loss” row.




LDPS Trading Robot – Quick Setup Guide                                                          3|9
    Initial Conﬁgurations – Trailing Stop Losses
    Sets up a Trailing Stop Loss. If not desired, uncheck the “Include Trailing Stop Loss” box.
       -   Set the Trailing Stop Loss Activation Amount (%) to a value slightly above the Stop-
           Loss Amount.

       -   Trailing Stop Trail Loss Amount is the percent of proﬁt that can be lost, not
           percent-move of the underlying or percent-move of the position. The higher the
           value, the more proﬁts can be “given back” prior to activating the exit-order.
    Initial Conﬁgurations – Backtesting Start Date
    Select the date for which you want the trading Robot to start operating.
       -   Future dates can be selected.

       -   Note: in setting up new Robots, it takes 3 bars of the given chart before the Robot
           has suﬃcient data to make a determination.


                                            Creating Alerts
    Setting up an alert is helpful for:
       -   Alerting (duh) the trader to the Robot’s activities
       -   Connecting the Robot to external brokers.
    Some important notes about alerts:
       -   To send the Robot’s activity to an External Broker, there are two pieces of
           information that need to be placed in the alert upon creation:
               o Message (JSON Message)
                 Within the “Message” ﬁeld, place (for TradersPost):

                  {
                      "ticker": "{{ticker}}",
                      "action": "{{strategy.order.action}}",
                      "quantity": "{{strategy.order.contracts}}",
                      "price": "{{close}}", "time": "{{timenow}}"
                  }

               o Webhook URL
                 This is obtained from TradersPost. It is the address that Robot will send its
                 activities to. Ensure it is updated and correct.


LDPS Trading Robot – Quick Setup Guide                                                            4|9
       -   Once an alert is set, if any changes are made to the Robot’s settings /
           conﬁgurations, you must remove the alert and add a new one.

       -   If you are using alerts with Webhooks, and alerts without Webhooks, ensure that
           the “Webhook URL” is blank in the non-robot alerts without Webhooks, and ﬁlled
           out for the alerts with Webhooks.

       -   If you set an alert with a connection to an external broker, it is highly recommended
           that you “Save Layout” the chart that you created the alert with. This will save the
           settings that you activated the robot for retrieval via “Load Layout” functionality if
           you need it.

       -   Each alert is a robot. If you have multiple alerts active using the LTA Robot: you
           have multiple robots running. Ensure you only have as many alerts running as
           Robots you want sharing their activities.


                                 External Account Conﬁgurations
    External accounts that are connected to the LDPS Trading Robot will require
    conﬁguration. This is only applicable for TradersPost connections. There are three main
    items that TradersPost needs ﬁlled out in order to connect with the LTA Robot: Webhooks,
    Strategies, and Subscriptions.
    External Account Conﬁgurations – Webhooks
    The Webhook URL is the URL that TradingView will send LTA Robot’s orders. Do not share
    this URL.
    Note: it is good practice to have a different webhook address for each different LTA Robot
    connected.
    Once in TradersPost, go to Webhooks → New Webhook. Here are some recommended
    settings:
       -   Basic Settings:
              o If you select “Allow any ticker”, be sure the “Tickers” ﬁeld below is blank.
       -   Security Settings:
              o Check “Limit to Trading View” : this will ensure that TradersPost only
                  accepts orders from TradingView.
    Click save, and copy the Webhook URL from the upper part of the page for later use.




LDPS Trading Robot – Quick Setup Guide                                                           5|9
    External Account Conﬁgurations – Strategies
    Below are some of the recommended settings.
    Go to Strategies → New Strategies to create a new strategy.
       -   Basic Settings
              o Select the Webhook you made.
       -   Strategy Details
              o Not required.
       -   Subscription Defaults
              o Basic Settings
                      Sides: set to Both
              o Asset Class
                      Select the Asset class for which the Robot is being applied.
              o Position Size Settings
                      Check: Use Signal Quantity
                      Check: Subtract Exit Quantity from Signal Quantity
                      Check: Use Signal Stop Loss
              o Entry Settings
                      Check: Allow Add to Position
                      Check: Entry market
              o Exit Settings
                      Check: Exit Market
    Once the Strategy’s settings are conﬁgured, select Save.
    External Account Conﬁgurations – Subscriptions
       -   Basic Settings
              o Check Auto Submit
              Note: the Auto Submit feature requires 2-Factor Authentication.
              o Sides: Both
       -   Broker Settings
              o Broker: Select your broker.
              o When using a Paper Account, do not select “Use Live Broker Account”.
       -   Asset Class:
              o Ensure the Asset class here matches the Asset class within the created
                  Strategy.
       -   Position Size Settings
              o Check: Use Signal Quantity
              o Check: Subtract Exit Quantity from Signal Quantity
       -   Stop Loss Settings
              o Check: Use Signal Stop Loss

LDPS Trading Robot – Quick Setup Guide                                                6|9
       -   Entry Settings
               o Check: Allow Add to Position
               o Check: Entry Market
       -   Exit Settings
               o Check: Exit Market
    Once created, click Save.
    If everything is set up correctly, you will be told the save was completed but that the
    Subscription is not enabled.
    If you are ready to enable to Subscription (turn the robot on), click Enable.
                                           Overall Steps
    With all of the steps combined, setting up the LDPS Trading Algorithm follows the general
    steps below:
       1) Set up LTA Robot on desired timeframe and interval on Tradingview.
       2) Conﬁgure appropriate LTA Robot settings.
       3) Create and conﬁgure a Traderspost Webhook, Subscription, and Strategy.
       4) Connect Traderspost to broker.
       5) Create an Alert on Tradingview with the appropriate JSON message and Webhook
          URL.
       6) Monitor & Troublehshoot
                                         Troubleshooting
       -   Trade alerts are being generated but do not appear on the chart and/or trades are
           appearing on the chart without alerts being generated.

              o Ensure that the Alert and the Chart are operating on the same version of the
                LTA Robot.
              o Ensure that the LDPS Robot that was used has the same conﬁgurations as
                the Robot used to create the alert.

       -   I added the LTA Robot Alert and now when I try to add new alerts, things are
           messed up.
               o Remove the Webhook URL from the Non-LTA Robot Alerts.

       -   TradingView is generating alerts but the trades aren’t appearing in my paper
           account.
              o Ensure your alert has the appropriate JSON message content.
              o Ensure your alert has the appropriate Webhook URL
           If these are valid:
LDPS Trading Robot – Quick Setup Guide                                                         7|9
             o Log into TradersPost.
             o Go to Webhooks and select the Webhook being used or go to
               Subscriptions → Trades.
             o Look for any trades labeled “Rejected”. Select one of those trades.
             o Within the “Trade Plan Message”, an error should be present to point you
               in the right direction:




              o If there are no rejected trades listed:
                      Ensure you are using the correct Webhook URL
      -   I am getting a “Maximum number of trades exceeded” when I add the indicator /
          when I try to do a backtest.
          Your time-interval is too small as compared to your Backtesting start date. You can
          either:
              o Use the “Deep Backtesting” if you are a paid TradingView user

             o Either increase your trading interval, or decrease your backtesting length.
                    This can be done within the Settings.
      -   The Webhook requests failed / keep failing.
             o Ensure there are no non-LTA Robot alerts with the Webhook URL ﬁlled out
               (unless they have their own webhook URLs).

             o Ensure that the LTA Robot alert has the following in the message ﬁeld:




LDPS Trading Robot – Quick Setup Guide                                                       8|9
                               {
                                   "ticker": "{{ticker}}",
                                   "action": "{{strategy.order.action}}",
                                   "quantity": "{{strategy.order.contracts}}",
                                   "price": "{{close}}", "time": "{{timenow}}"
                               }

      -   I added the indicator but it says “There were no trades indicated during the trading
          period”
              o If you are using the Fixed-Percentage sizing method, ensure you have
                 appropriate starting capital.
              o Ensure you have an appropriate Portfolio Utilization percentage.
              o Ensure the start date isn’t set for a future date.

      -   I added the indicator and set it to start at some future date and time. Now its past
          that date and time, but there are no trades.

          The robot takes 3 bars of data before completing its assessment. If more than
          three bars have past since the start date and time, then proceed to more
          troubleshooting, else, wait for three bars to complete (the ﬁrst trade should occur
          at the end of the 3rd bar after the start date and time).




LDPS Trading Robot – Quick Setup Guide                                                           9|9
