                                       Data Dashboard Patch Notes
                                               2023-06-11
Some more general fixes and some additions for the dashboard:


General
   -     The dashboard thought the date was “4” earlier in the week. This has been fixed.
   -     The Old Dashboard is officially offline and cannot be accessed.
   -     Weekly Chat uploading functionality has been fixed to send the weekly chats to the new
         dashboard.
Additional Resources
   -     Since there are a lot of changes recently, and more to come, an additional tab on the “Additional
         Resources” page has been added that includes the Patch Notes and Progress Notes available for
         download.


Justin
                                              Patch Notes
                                              2023-06-11

Known Bugs / Works in Progress:
   -   There is recursion bug causing a stack overflow during certain operations, in particular when
       larger data is called to be directionalized from the Dashboard. This is being investigated.
   -   The graphs still get “stuck” if the zoom functionality is utilized.
   -   Stocks with an underscore or period in their symbol name are not behaving well.
   -   The stock banners occasionally do not update appropriately after adding or removing a stock
       to/from the watch list.
   -   Certain inputs in the Single Stock search will break everything including the known universe, don’t
       do it.
   -   There are some missing reports for the early part of 2023. I am working on revamping the report
       handling/distribution process to speed things up overall (see: Report List being slow) and will
       upload any and all missing reports from 06/01/2022 to present once that process is completed.
   -   In a wonderful twist of fate, the stocks $T and $F have been erroneously being handled as
       boolean values (TRUE and FALSE) causing widespread data disruptions for those two stocks.
       I’m working on it and have contacted NYSE to change $T to $TRUE and $F to $FALSE to make
       my life a tad easier – I’m waiting on hearing back.
   -   Certain stocks appear on the market scan but are inaccessible via manual searching.
