                                 Weekly Chat 2026-03-09


                                       Main Points



       -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ are wholly within the Propagation Zone with $QQQ’s VoEx-
           daily experiencing a substantial spike downwards.
       -   Hedging environments for $SPY demonstrate local gamma-squeeze with
           surrounding selling pressure while $QQQ’s has transitioned to a blanket of
           purchasing support.
       -   Gamma squeeze data showcase GS growth and increased expectations for future
           growth.
       -   LS&T data showcase diffuse and persistent bearish liquidity, minimal proximal
           organic bid supports.

                                       SUMMARY



           The data continue to grow evermore bearish!

           VoEx is unanimous in its bearish-outlooks for $SPY and $QQQ with
           VoEx and VoEx-daily for both residing (and deepening) within the
           P.Z. Of note is $QQQ’s massive downwards VoEx-daily spike.

           Gamma-squeeze data measured a 25% growth in count week-over-
           week with the predictive data forecasting greater counts and more
           significant growth in the future.

           LS&T data are also wholly bearish, with the final inclusion of the
           weekly interval into the bearish club. Thusly, downside is expected
           and in search of support, we find only LT6 approximately 3% down.

           Thus, it seems prudent to set a conservative downside target of 3%
           as the next step in this market-journey.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat        for the week of            2026-03-09 to 2026-03-13
                                             DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we had visions of downside and also last week, we were not disappointed. $SPY
moved 1.98% to the downside while $QQQ mustered -1.25%. Not too shabby! We can visualize
these moves in the heatmaps below:




It seems the market did all it could to keep conditions away from selling pressure, perhaps for the
better since even without said selling pressure, the market floated down quite substantially!
This week, our task is straightforward and should be quick: will downside continue or are there
any concerns for a bounce.
Let’s get started!
Turbulence!
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see:




That is quite the showing!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2026-03-09 to 2026-03-13
Both $SPY and $QQQ present with VoEx and VoEx-daily within the Propagation Zone, all four are
also descending, and $QQQ has just experienced quite the massive VoEx-daily drop! These are,
universally bearish1 on the near-term and long-term.
Let’s check out the hedging heatmaps to see if there is any reason to inflate our hopes for a
bounce:




It seems conditions are much the same for $SPY while $QQQ’s environment has changed
substantially.

For SPY, we can see another “local gamma squeeze” with selling-pressure located below and
purchasing support located spot-up. The main difference from last week is $SPY’s location in the
selling pressure rather than the purchasing support!
$QQQ’s environment, however, is quite different and is loaded with purchasing support – perhaps
given the VoEx data this is a good thing!

Taken together, conditions look rough! Essentially, it boils down to: will the purchasing support
on $QQQ’s hedging environment be substantial in the face of selling pressure from $SPY and all
of the other bearish prints seen (and to be seen below)? If one finds ample reason to suspect that
yes, said purchasing support is sufficiently robust, then there is hope that it will help the market
float down rather than slam down, however, if
one finds vacancy instead, well, slam down it is,
then!
Moving onwards, let’s check out the market-
wide gamma squeeze data. This week, gamma-
squeeze counts rose by 25% from 958 to 1,201.
Pretty strong jump!

Overall, we can see the growth for gamma
squeezes (despite the fluctuations in total count
lately; right) has maintained its positive stature
since 2026-01-26! That’s 2 months of growth!


1
 Let us take a moment to thank VoEx for being so decisive! Usually, it is lamented that signals are mixed or
muddied but not now!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                   for the week of                    2026-03-09 to 2026-03-13
Moving to the predictive gamma squeeze data, we find:




Expectations for the future are greater than they are today! The predictive-growth-count (PCC;
golden) is positive, indicating the future is to be filled with more gamma squeezes than is currently
present, while the predictive-growth-curve (PGC; purple) is rising rapidly. A rapidly rising PGC
suggests that future gamma squeeze growth will be greater than it currently is (which, mind you,
is setting at 25% week-over-week!).
These data are pretty bearish all around with minimal showings for a brewing bounce !
Moving onwards, let’s check the LS&T data to see how liquidity is finding currently conditions:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2026-03-09 to 2026-03-13
Quite bearish prints all around and of particular note is the transition to bearish liquidity found on
the Weekly Interval!
This suggests that the bullish liquidity (i.e.: support) that was being supplied by LT4 has run dry
(or to be technical, the well may not be dry but the demand for water [the ask] is now sufficiently
larger than anticipated supply!), and this brings with it tidings of a future needing to test LT6 for
support (which sits about 3% down).

On the shorter intervals, we find also bearish liquidity and some evidence of dip-buyers (90-, and
144-minute) which may hold off some immediate downside but I wouldn’t put too much faith in
their ability to turn things around, especially given how far-off the 987-minute dip-buyers seem to
be (who are well above spot still!).
Overall, these data are also quite bearish with minimal evidence of a brewing bounce: there are
no near-by supports (other than the depleting LT4) and all liquidity appears bearish.
In sum, these data are resoundingly bearish! In such conditions, I would interpret any “bounce”
merely as volatility and turbulence than evidence of changing tides while expecting significant
downside all-the-while.
Happy trading!


Justin


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2026-03-09 to 2026-03-13
