                                     Weekly Chat 2025-09-29


                                            Main Points



       -   VoEx-daily for $SPY, $QQQ, $VOO and $VTI have returned to the Propagation Zone
           after recent Spike-like behavior. VoEx remains elevated within stability.
       -   Hedging Heatmaps show persistent and robust selling-pressure located spot-up
           with minimal downside purchasing support noted except for on $VTI.
       -   MWGS data showcase minimal changes.
       -   LDPM/S data show a mixed environment with near-term bearish outlooks amongst
           longer-term weak bullish outlooks.
       -   Prudency suggests bracing for another leg down, approximately 3.5%

                                             SUMMARY


           The market shook a little this week and the consequences can be noted. VoEx-
           daily for $SPY, $QQQ, $VOO and $VTI have returned to the Propagation Zone,
           highlighting the risk we brushed aside weeks prior regarding the apparent VoEx-
           daily spikes noted throughout. $TLT’s VoEx and VoEx-daily have been elevated to
           stability.

           The Gamma-Hedging Heatmaps show an environment filled persistent and
           robust selling pressure located spot-up. $VTI showcases some purchasing
           support (the only one) located spot-down with a transitory and slightly gamma-
           neutral zone located in the $− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + direction.

           The MWGS data [not show] are still moot.

           LDPM/S investigation into ES futures showcases another round of weakened
           bearish near-term prints with weakened bullish long-term prints painting an
           environment that is both uncertain and flimsy. LDPM support suggests ES futures
           have grace to fall 3.5% until LDPM support comes into view. A quick investigation
           into a composite chart of $PSY/$GLD suggests $GLD is expected to out-perform
           in the coming months.

           Overall, prudency suggests the market is itself quite uncertain and this is
           manifesting currently in uncertain data. These data point towards downside as
           the locus of stability.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2025-09-22 to 2025-09-26
 DETAILS




                                                ---
                                           Quick Note:
There’s an issue with the Deep Dive Stocks domain being kicked back by gmail. I am working with
them to get this undone but for now, that seems to be the issue with some members not receiving
the Weekly Chat in their emails.
I’ll keep you updated!
                                                ---
Hello!

Last week, we left off with bullish ideations and in response to this, the market decided to move
-0.28% ($SPY) while $QQQ moved -0.56%. Not bullish at all!
Taking a peek at the heatmaps for the week, we see:




A week defined by slow and lethargic migration down to purchasing support, only to experience
a slight bounce, and by bounce I mean IV decreased a bit after coming into contact with said
purchasing support. Nothing too exciting.
But, this week, let’s take a look at the data with some additional caution: we’ve been toiling for a
while now on anticipated downside being neigh until recently and so it might behoof us to ensure
that the market isn’t just in the process of breaking our ankles.
Ankle Braces
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-09-22 to 2025-09-26
Oh my.
It seems the market might just be in the process of something devious after all.
Recent prints show VoEx-daily spiking back into the Propagation Zone on both $SPY and $QQQ:
this brings immediate downside expectations. For now, this behavior hasn’t compromised VoEx’s
admittedly renewed interest in returning to stability ! If one were interested in parallels, it looks as
though this is reminiscent of 2025-07-ish, but with a more contracted time-period.
All-in-all, this is very suspicious for continued downside.

In checking with some additional VoExes, we see:
$VOO:




Recent VoEx-daily behavior appears very chaotic with a consistently decreasing VoEx. This is
usually not a good sign for future (bullish) stability.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2025-09-22 to 2025-09-26
$TLT:




In figuring we might need a break from the potential onslaught of bearish views, we can take a
peek at $TLT which is showing quite the opposite! The data here are very bullish! We have VoEx
moving into stability and VoEx-daily is, at least for now, not moving into the Propagation Zone.
Moving onwards, let’s take a peek at $VTI (Total Stock Market ETF):




Similar scene to above: VoEx-daily has entered the Propagation Zone and VoEx-proper is has been
slowly descending out of stability.

Taken together, there seems consensus that near-term downside appears very likely given VoEx-
daily’s unanimous movement into the Propagation Zone but there is, for now, still a decent
amount of room between current VoEx-proper and the Propagation Zone on most ETFs (opposite
for TLT).



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of               2025-09-22 to 2025-09-26
Thus, it seems reasonable per VoEx to expect continued downside.

Let’s take a peek at the hedging environments to see how things look:




Not the most conducive environments for any spot-up expectations! We have selling-pressure
located spot-up for both $SPY and $QQQ and minimal purchasing support located spot-down
(sort of the opposite form last week!).
This is a relatively bearish print once more!
Let’s check in on TLT and VTI:




On this view we see $TLT has some head-winds as well, like its equity contemporaries but with a
bit more ceiling above spot before the selling-pressure really kicks in.

$VTI is in a similar boat but we see that the purchasing support found therein is just as robust as
the selling pressure – unlike its contemporaries.
Taken together, this is another field of bearish data prints: in the land of the hedging heatmaps
we find it filled with local and substantial selling-pressure located spot-up with minimal
purchasing support found (except for $VTI).

Moving onto the market-wide gamma squeeze data (not shown) we find: not much still! Let’s
check in on it next week if there is any exciting downside.
Moving onwards once more, let’s check out liquidity environments via LDPM/S:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2025-09-22 to 2025-09-26
A few interesting findings:
       -   On the 90-minute (top-left) we see LDPM-L5 acting as a resistance to spot-
           appreciation with 4 consecutive failed attempts, despite the bullish liquidity.
       -   The 144-minute (top-right) is wholly bearish despite a recent ABC (lower order LDPMs
           not shown). There is no evidence yet of the “Wave” occurring, indicating that the profit-
           taking hasn’t kicked in yet, but one can see that the aggressive bid cascade failed to
           do two important things one might hope from an ABC:
               o It failed to convert liquidity to bullish,
               o It failed to move spot
       -   The 987-minute finds itself back in the previous spot we had just praised it for breaking
           out of: its fallen back under LDPM-L5 and finds said LDPM resistance once-again
           perplexingly difficult to over-take.
       -   The 1-Week view shows spot still struggling to raise above LDPM-L5 support and we
           see the tiniest evidence of an Aggressive Ask Cascade forming (LDPM-L5, 6 & 7 all
           have the [albeit slightest] unanimous upwards bend characteristic of such events).
So, this is just a strange environment: we see bullish LDPS liquidity failing to provide bullish spot
performance, either due to LDPM-resistances that theoretically should provide amble support to
an aspiring spot or even in just failing to raise spot without said resistances (as in the 144-
minute).
These data paint weakness and, at minimal, either a reluctance for the market to move spot higher
or the inability to do so, even with the predominate forces being bullish (90-, 987-minute & 1-
Week).

Now, let’s check in on a composite chart of $SPY / $GLD:



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2025-09-22 to 2025-09-26
Composite Charts work by combining to symbols in X / Y form. These have been a recent
discovery and have only become more interesting!

On this view, we see $SPY/$GLD and the key points are:
       -   When LDPS prints bullish candles, then we expect the top symbol ($SPY) to out-
           perform, while
       -   When LDPS is bearish, then we expect the bottom symbol ($GLD) to out-perform.

The recent history of these data show that:
       -   From 2024-12-31 to 2025-05-01 [approx. 5 months] LDPS printed bearish prints and
           $GLD rose 23% while $SPY declined 4%.
       -   From 2025-05-01 to 2025-08-15 [approx. 3 months] LDPS printed bullish prints and
           $GLD rose 2% while $SPY rose 14%.
These are pretty compelling data! Recent data show bearish liquidity since 2025-08-15 during
which time, so far, $GLD has risen 11% while $SPY has risen 2% - and this trend is expected to
continue as LDPS continues to print bearish prints!
Thus, in this view, we see that the market’s flow is definitely centered towards moving into $GLD
at a greater magnitude than into $SPY, and as such, although this isn’t bearish per-se for $SPY it
does suggest bearish ideations are becoming ingrained in market behavior.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-09-22 to 2025-09-26
And so, before this becomes overly daunting with data, I think for now there is sufficient evidence
to maintain a bearish outlook going forward.
In investigating a potential downwards floor, the 987-minute gives us a space between spot and
LDPM-L6 support of about 3.5% down. This seems a reasonable downwards target to set as the
step before things start really getting spicey.
Happy Trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-09-22 to 2025-09-26
