                                   Weekly Chat 05/29/2023


                                           Main Points


    -   Bullish until proven otherwise is still the mantra.



                                           SUMMARY


           The data present in a similar fashion as last week’s.

           VoEx is demonstrating its recent ascension towards free-will and jumping
           quite erratically throughout the field. These behaviors have historically
           been associated with near-term downside whose magnitude seems to be
           associated with the magnitude of VoEx’s ascent into the I.Z.

           Currently, we seem to be approaching a slightly concerning level of
           instability on $QQQ – in particular, an instability that suggests the next
           downside may be greater in magnitude than the standard “dip” we have
           been expecting.

           The hedging environments are the same as last week as well with little-to-
           no purchasing support located $-/IV+ , and with imminent selling pressure
           located on both $SPY and $QQQ.

           MWGSC is officially bearish with the MWGSC-trend rising into positive
           territory. The 5-day rate-of-change of the number of gamma squeezes
           market-wide is positive, as well. GTM is also bearish as it has started
           printing just-positive values.

           DLP behavior is locally bullish but uninspiring for a full vote of confidence
           towards a bullish outlook, when compared with prior behavior.

           Nonetheless – although the data are migrating towards a bearish outlook,
           per VoEx, until there is a VoEx Spike or Divergence, the official outlook is
           anxiously bullish.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         05/29/2023
                                         DETAILS




Hello everyone!

What a wonderfully strange week – although we have become accustomed to less-than-
normal markets, I think this week in particular was pretty unique.

Last week, we left off with the idea that the music was still playing, so we should dance.
And, well, even though we didn’t get quite as much dance time as originally imaged, the
week did end with a nice 0.33% positive movement, thanks to Friday’s rally.

For the week ahead, let’s ensure that the market’s misstep doesn’t distract too much from
our overall bullish outlook, and then, perhaps, get ready to dance yet again.

But first!
The new dashboard is up and running! If you haven’t received your username and
password, please let me know!

The original dashboard will be going offline on 06/02/2023.

Check out the Progress Notes and Patch Notes for the change list.

Data for the dashboard

Last week experienced an reasonable $-/IV+ move, a potential outcome we considered
“The Influence Distributions suggest negative movements, and there isn't really any good
purchasing support located $-/IV+ for $SPY or $QQQ – so this is some things to keep in
mind.” but even in a $-/IV+ move, we considered it reasonably safe, claiming it to be
“weak” and “minor”, along with some other derogatory accolades.

Nonetheless,        without       any
purchasing support in $-/IV+, we
see that even minor selling pressure
mixed nicely with some early-week
market instability giving us quite the
move.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                05/29/2023
It is curious to note as well that on Wednesday, there was quite the introduction of
purchasing support. To whomever or whatever provided that, that was nice, thank you.

                                                    We can see to the left that $SPY
                                                    landed right at the purchasing
                                                    support’s boundaries, after which is
                                                    did a pleasant about-face and turned
                                                    northward.

                                                    Its also interesting that the presence
                                                    of at least some kind of breaking
                                                    pressure to the market’s down-turn
                                                    was was also observed by our DLP
                                                    friends.


We can see that Wednesday brought about quite the increase in put selling: an odd
prospect considering both Tuesday and Wednesday were significantly red as well. May
we all be blessed with such good timing:




This is quite noticeable on $QQQ where puts were net closing since the start of the week,
until Wednesday saw a surge in put selling – enough to push the 5-day, and 10-day
Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                05/29/2023
averages positive (crude change is 55%!).

That’s quite the statement, and one the market seems to have heard, with $SPY moving
+2.17% from Wednesday close to Friday’s close, and $QQQ moving 5.05%!

With the past behind us on an interesting week, let’s look ahead and peek at what our well-
timed friends are up to now.

Starting as usual we VoEx, we see that despite VoEx’s early-week dip into the Propagation
Zone, we have now rebounded quite substantially into the Inhibition Zone:




Admittedly an annoying development in the early part of the week1, as we last week had
looked at the signs VoEx presents with when a bull-run is nearing its end 2. Well, if
Thursday and Friday are any indications, it would appear as though the end arrived.

Does this mean that the end isn’t near? I don’t think that is a fair statement either,
however. VoEx shouldn’t move from the IZ to the PZ with zeal – in fact we discussed this
exact phenomenon in 04/24’s weekly chat (go check it out!). This instability and false-
alarms are frustrating but one can’t help but think of the expression: where there’s smoke,
there’s fire; and it does seem that VoEx is flailing around as if there is some smoke in the
air.



1
  Its worth noting this behavior such that we have been suggesting for awhile now that we are bullish until proven
otherwise and that otherwise being VoEx Spikes or Divergence. Well – didn’t we experience a VoEx Spike on $SPY
and $QQQ this week? Yup! If a trader went short on those events, I don’t think you could fault them. This time,
however, the market seems to have other plans, and shot VoEx right back into the I.Z. Frustrating!
2
  If you haven’t read it yet, I definitely recommend checking out 5/22’s weekly chat – it has a nice review of VoEx
Divergence and VoEx Spikes during bull runs.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                       05/29/2023
I’d like to think that the erraticism of VoEx foreshadows the erraticism of the market, and
we see that demonstrated nicely the last time we saw this kind of behavior. For those that
may remember, that following Tuesday (04/25) saw a -1.59% move but the week ended
over-all with a staggering 0.80% move (on $SPY).

We see that $QQQ is displaying a similar behavior:




Sudden and rapid movements all the same – just not into the Propagation Zone (and
barely into stability).

What does this mean for us? Well – volatility of course. One that will most likely lead to
downside because an unstable VoEx begets an unstable stock, and as we should be quite
familiar with by now, instability typically resolves on the downside.

When will this occur? Its, as usual, difficult to say. However, since currently neither VoEx
nor VoEx-trend for $SPY or $QQQ are inside of the Propagation Zone – it would seem we
are left again in a holding pattern: bullish until proven otherwise (waiting ever-more for
the VoEx-Spike or VoEx Divergence).

Turning towards the hedging environments we find ourselves again in a similar situation
on both $SPY and $QQQ: little-to-no purchasing support located $-/IV+, current surrounds
are selling pressure, and negative influence distributions.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  05/29/2023
Not the most promising of situations and one that suggests more downside ahead.
Perhaps we are “too zoomed in”? Are we too focused on the immediate present and
forgetting sights of some bigger-picture-action? Maybe. To check, let’s look at ExVoEx
(Extended VoEx) for $SPY and $QQQ and see what they say.

Well – that sort of clears things up? Let’s see what we have.




$SPY’s ExVoEx is inside of stability but has spiked several times into the IZ and PZ. You’ll
note that this is behavior we have mentioned before on $SPY but with “normal” VoEx. Why
is it important to point out now? Well, ExVoEx is extended which translates here to the
idea that if something is provoking instability and one sees it on ExVoEx, they can be
reasonably certain that it is pretty potent.

$QQQ is no different – and in fact we see that instability on $QQQ is very reminiscent of
prior local peaks: take a glance around 04/2021, 06/2021, 11/2021, 04/2022, 08/2022 –
just to name a few. These examples describe the situation quite well – and in terms that
we have become quite familiar with: this perpetually progressing performance is
unstable.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  05/29/2023
The proximal concern I’m starting to experience isn’t the idea itself that the market is
unstable (something we’ve been keeping track of for quite awhile now), but rather the
nascent angst of just how unstable is the market becoming.

If we rewind the time on my rantings, we’ll remember that the predominate theme this
year has been “bulish”, and more percicely, “bullish until proven otherwise”. This was
simply due to the fact that the foundations of the market seemed to have “cooled off” in
the early part of the year – but things still remained rather dicey.

So the outlook has been “we go up but we will probably experience some dips along the
way”. This has been the game we’ve been playing: timing the “dips” while keeping an eye
out for if things were getting too rocky during the regular intermittent and expected
downsides.

There was concern, or a cautious eye, towards the idea that if, during these normal
downsides, instability might rise significantly high enough such that it might disrupt our
longer-term bullish outlook. If not, then we can “buy the dip” and expect a return to a
bullish performance – but if not, or if there were data suggesting a larger-than-normal
downside, things could get a bit rocky.

The slight poke at my side is asking: Is that occurring now?

Notwithstanding, I think it is reasonable to maintain a bullish-until-proven-otherwise
stance (with our longer-term horizon still being bullish) but as things progress, and as
VoEx treks further northward, the imminent retraction increases in its potential
magnitude.

In keeping with the more “zoomed out” and macro views, let’s quickly shift over to the
MWGSC to see how the market-at-large is positioned and positioning.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                05/29/2023
Some curious findings in the MWGSC data as the picture seems to be evolving even more
towards the idea that not only is downside a reasonable expectation for our next “trend”
                                                    but that this change may be coming
                                                    soon.

                                                      The 5-Day average of the daily
                                                      MWGSC change is once again
                                                                  positive, with the
                                                                  overall trend, and
                                                                  we can see that
                                                                  GTM has peeked its
                                                                  head into bearish
                                                                  territory as well.

                                                                      In taking a “local”
                                                                      picture of these
                                                                      data, one wouldn’t
                                                                     be judged for saying
                                                      “well yes, they are bearish but just
                                                      so” and as such, may want to wait a
                                                      tad longer before making any
                                                      definitive statements.

                                                                      Zooming       out,
                                                                      however, we see a
                                                                      more      dynamic
                                                                      picture:      the
                                                                         MWGSC-Change
                                                                  trend hasn’t changed
                                                      much in the past two months -
                                                     hovering perilously at the neutral
                                                     line (red line; and some may even
                                                     say spending slightly more time in
it); the typical “wave-like pattern” associated with the MWGSC-trend-of-late hasn’t
manifested (some who are technical analysis enthusiasts may note the “higher lows” in
this pattern since 10/2022); and GTM has been growing increasingly positive since 05/15
– all of these point towards an impending bearish future.

This imposes upon us a problem as we described above: bullish until proven otherwise
all the while the data are becoming both otherwise and ominously otherwise.

The good news is, however, that although timing may not be our specialty, we do know a
few people that specialize in just that. Let’s take a peek at the Dealer Long Puts (DLPs),
and by extension, those who sell put: our friendly neighborhood DLP-ers. How do they


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                05/29/2023
assess the situation from their lofty thrones?




Locally (5,- and 10-day averages) provide somewhat of an argument towards an
increasing tenacity towards shorting puts – but stepping back, we see this recent
behavior is quite moot. It inspires no awe either in magnitude nor duration; just look at
the magnitude of difference between the up-spike in DLP behavior at the start of 03/2023,
and the rapidity of its closure only two weeks later and that of our recent performances.

Curious that March 2023 ended up 4%! Not too shabby.

Is that what we have now? Hardly – we seem to have mere scraps on the table this time
around.

So – what does it all mean?

Technically the data suggest bullish until proven otherwise but these same data suggest
that the upcoming otherwise may be both proximal and significant.

But until a VoEx Spike or VoEx Divergence: we wait.

Happy trading,
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                               05/29/2023
