                                   Weekly Chat 08/21/2023


                                         Main Points


       -   $SPY and $QQQ’s VoExes are starting the week out in the Propagation Zone once
           more.
       -   The Hedging Environments demonstrate similar set-ups with purchasing support
           located $-/IV+, and positive influence distributions with left-tail risks present.
       -   DLP behavior is in a net-closure state.
       -   MWGS-data show increasing growth rates, increasing GS counts, and a positive
           GTM.
       -   𝑉𝑉 2 has turned on with a datum printing within the Propagation Zone.



                                          SUMMARY



           The data are much the same as last week: VoEx is starting within the
           Propagation Zone indicating a severe and elevated risk for short-to-
           medium term sustained downside.

           The Gamma Hedging Heatmaps demonstrate bullish-leaning influence
           distributions with persistent left-tails. The environments show themselves
           to have persistent and available purchasing support in the $-/IV+
           quadrant.

           DLP behavior last week was strange and it left little-to-no desire to open
           puts for the week a head, as $SPY printed a respectable negative value.

           Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data are showing a growing prevalence
           and veracity of gamma squeezes throughout the market with current
           counts being 38% greater month-over-month. GTM is printing positive
           values, suggestive that the GS growth is expected to continue.

           𝑉𝑉 2 has printed its first datum within the Propagation Zone – something
           that we have been keeping an eye out for. For now, however, it is a benign
           print as it is not accompanied by 𝑉𝑉 2 collapse in either of the 3 zones.

           Overall, it seems reasonable to expected continued downside on the short
           and medium terms.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      08/21/2023
                                                     DETAILS




Hello everyone!

What an exciting week, so let’s jump right in.

The week started out relatively mild – that is, if you weren’t paying too much attention to the
hedging environments:




With surgical precision, it seems some actor within the market felt $QQQ on Monday needed a
quick trip to selling pressure by way of drastically reducing IV – although I am not too convinced
the goal of such large IV movements were to introduce selling pressure per se 1 but rather were
a consequence of a large-scale put-selling excursion that quickly changed-its-mind.

To unpack this idea, let’s take a quick look at the DLP data, along with a a quick review of market-
mechanics.

First, let’s investigate how selling or purchasing options affects IV. To do so, a quick example:

    Suppose you sell house insurance and all-of-a-sudden a whole neighborhood knocks on your
      office to purchase house insurance. Capitalism says where there’s demand, there’s an
                               opportunity to increase your prices.
The same idea applies to options – the more people that purchase puts (share insurance) the
more the insurance premiums rise, and as such, the cost of options increases. Thus, it would
seem: retail purchasing a put → provides dealer short gamma → I.V. increases.


1
 Tin foil hat time: vanna-squeeze are dependent on two things: vanna and squeezing. Functionally, this translates
to the idea that if you have neither vanna nor squeezing (volatility) one cannot have a vanna squeeze. So it is a tad
curious that Monday seems to have seen an attempt at removing IV, and thus, the squeeze from the vanna squeeze.
However, we can see that as the week progressed and IV couldn’t be suppressed and the vanna squeeze persisted!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                        08/21/2023
           From this example, lets abstract and construct some basic rules:

                  -   New Long gamma decreases IV
                  -   New Short gamma increases IV

           In terms of puts, this means:

                  -   Selling a put decreases IV
                  -   Purchasing a put increases IV

Action                                     Change in Dealer Gamma                 Change in IV


Buying a put                                                   -                                     +

Selling a put                                                  +                                     -

Buying a call                                                  -                                     +

Selling a call                                                 +                                     -




           This becomes relevant to our conversation on Monday’s IV change when we look at the DLP
           changes that occurred on $QQQ as well.

           On Monday the number of total number of OTM DLPs rose from 412,273 to 2,206,279 – quite the
           substantial increase! It seems it was enough long gamma to tank IV quite substantially.

           That is, probably in combination of the options dealers having a go at both providing and
           purchasing cheap volatility. Regardless of its genesis, the change in IV seems to have taken some
           window out of the put-sellers sails as Tuesday saw an 80% decline back to a paltry 426,051 DLPs.
           Here’s a glimpse at the numbers:

Date                                       OTM Long Puts                          % Change


2023-08-11                                                 412,273

2023-08-14                                               2,206,279                               +435.15

2023-08-15                                                 426,051                                -51.72




           Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        08/21/2023
        $SPY should also be investigated to see if it experienced similar such DLP changes. If it did, this
        would discredit the above theory as $SPY did not experience such IV changes along with the DLP
        changes, if they did occur.

        So, let’s look at the numbers for $SPY to see if this is the case:

Date                                             OTM Long Puts                                    % Change


2023-08-11                                                        5,851,813                                                -

2023-08-14                                                        2,675,959                                           -54.29

2023-08-15                                                        1,291,258                                           -51.72




        $SPY experienced neither a large increase in DLPs like $QQQ but actually found itself shedding
        DLPs throughout the week. No sudden changes in IV, and no sudden changes in anything that is
        known to cause sudden changes in IV. This fits the idea that the “market” or our DLP friends, were
        reasonably confident in their ability to profit from either an increase in $ or a decrease in IV
        throughout the week, and as such, found the courage to sell puts but in doing so, the IV tanked 2,
        resulting in a mass exodus and resumption of volatility’s loftier status.

        This strange IV
        performance
        stands out even
        further when $QQQ
        is investigated with
        LDPM-Vol 3.       In
        doing so, we can
        see that LDPM-Vol
        and IV performed
        very differently on
        08/14:

        We can see that
        whereas         IV
        experienced    its
        large downside, LDPM-Vol continues its upwards trajectory! This adds evidence that the IV


        2
         We’ve heard of Retail Syndrome but is this the first recording of Institution Syndrome?
        3
         LDPM-Vol (Liquidity-Dependent Price Movement Volatility) is a restructuring of LDPM such that it gives us a view
        of volatility, just like IV! The difference is, however, that this view of volatility is being constructed through the lens
        of liquidity, and as such, it is not dependent on options prices or option liquidity but only on the liquidity of the
        equity itself.

        Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                              08/21/2023
movement was in fact option-dealer mediated, as we can see from a different vantage point, real
volatility (and subsequently, liquidity) didn’t change 4.

So much activity!

The take-home message here I think is: someone mistimed the market in a big way, and got
punished for it as the options dealers seemed very eager to purchase cheap volatility (which,
mind you, they set and can set as long as there’s a willing counterparty). Worth keeping in mind
perhaps.

Moving to the more recent data prints, we see that our job is far easier than usual, as both $SPY
and $QQQ’s VoExes are quite opinionated:




With both major indexes starting the week even deeper into the Propagation Zone, it is safe to
say that the outlook is that of expected, continued decline.

BUPO – if you will 5.




4
  Let’s unpack this slightly. Premise: IV measures expected future volatility, and as such, if IV falls, it suggests that
the future outlook for the equity is “more stable”. Traditional market wisdom would suggest that this means liquidity
has improved. However, if liquidity had improved, this would mean LDPM (which measures liquidity directly), and
subsequently LDPM-Vol, would change. LDPM-Vol didn’t change, and as such, this suggests that LDPM did not
register a change in liquidity, and as such, this means liquidity did not improve! If liquidity didn’t improve, then there
should be another explanation for a sudden decrease in IV, as the decrease doesn’t seem to be associated with
improved liquidity, and by extension, decreased volatility.
5
  The convenience is almost there. This BUPO is Bearish until proven otherwise. Not to be confused with the BUPO
we just exited which was Bullish until proven otherwise. I’ve no idea who comes up with these silly names.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                            08/21/2023
Moving from VoEx to the Heatmaps, we see a similar situation as before with purchasing support
in the $-/IV+ quadrants and bullish outlooks per the Influence Distributions.

Although initially comforting (what with all the purchasing support), there is growing over the fact
                                                        that the market has now chewed through
                                                        a reasonable amount of purchasing
                                                        support these past two weeks ($SPY has
                                                        declined 2.31% and $QQQ has moved
                                                        3.74%).

                                                        It would seem thus far, that the purchasing
                                                        support being provided is still insufficient
                                                        to absorb the eager ask present and
                                                        provide an avenue for an eager bid to form.

                                                        Admittedly, not the most ideal situations
                                                        but I suppose it is better than if there were
                                                        selling pressure located $-/IV+ rather than
                                                        purchasing support!

The goal for the next few weeks will be to monitor the hedging environments for signs of a
diminishing eager ask as well as an increase in eager bid.

Most likely, an easier task with LDPM but the idea is that if $SPY and $QQQ should begin to
respond bullishly (or at all, really) to the purchasing support, then it suggests that the price-
insensitive bid (from the purchasing support) is meeting either a decreasingly-eager ask or there
is a supportive eager bid budding with the purchasing support’s support.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          08/21/2023
Moving from the hedging environments to our DLP friends, we see the theme of downsizing DLP
positions on $SPY is in full-force, whereas $QQQ is showing some initially curious behavior:




I suspect that the persistent positive DLP prints on $QQQ are remnants of the (failed) excursion
into put selling witnessed early in the week. To verify, I looked up the 2-day change in DLP (which
is near-zero), and the 1-day change (which is -12%); these values closely match $SPY’s recent
performance.

It is safe to say that these numbers are very uninspiring and demonstrate little-to-no optimism for
profiteering from either an increase in $ or a decrease in IV.

Moving from the puts to the squeezes:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        08/21/2023
                                 Despite an early-week
                                 dip     into    negative
                                 territory, GTM has
                                 ended       the    week
                                 strongly          within
                                 positive-land.

                                 The MWGS-counts are
                                 also ending the week
                                 elevated    with    our
                                 current    counts    at
                                 1,745, a modest 3%
                                 (1,690) gain over the
                                 past week, a 13% gain
                                 over the past 2 weeks
                                 (1,544), and a 38% gain
                                 over the past month.

                                 Along     with    the
                                 elevated anticipated
                                 growth and elevated
                                 actual growth, we see
                                 an increasing growth
                                 rate in the MWGS-
                                 growth chart.

                                 All-in-all, quite the
                                 bearish prints from
                                 gamma land.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              08/21/2023
Lastly, we have 𝑉𝑉 2 . You’ll remember from recent chats, 𝑉𝑉 2 has helped us recognize that the
market is in fact over-heating, and that there were two things that should be monitored during the
then-upcoming downside to monitor the potential magnitude and breadth of the aforementioned
downside. Observations were to monitor for:

           -    𝑉𝑉 2 collapsing;
           -    𝑉𝑉 2 data prints appearing within the Propagation Zone.

The idea was that 𝑉𝑉 2 collapsing was indicative that the market was rearing-up to move in unison 6,
and the data prints appearing within the P.Z. were slated to be indications that this joint-venture
was moving towards, well, the Propagation Zone.

So, with two red weeks behind us, let’s check out what 𝑉𝑉 2 has to say:




Data! In the Propagation Zone!

Now, admittedly it is a datum and not data so we shouldn’t get our horses too bunched up but it
is worth noting that things are progressing on schedule.

The overall idea was that this current market downturn is to be relatively short-lived unless the
data start to demonstrate market-wide unraveling, at which time, the downside’s potential time


6
    VoEx’s of a feather flock together sort of thing.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         08/21/2023
horizon and impact would be significantly extended and maintained pro re nata. Thus, a pre-
requisite to being able to monitor for this potential was the presence of data within the
Propagation Zone on 𝑉𝑉 2 . Well, now that we have that so it would seem our monitoring goggles
are officially goggling.

For now, the data are:

          -   𝑉𝑉 2 isn’t decreasing for any of the three zones: that means that even the VoExes within
              those same zones are expanding (like the universe) rather than crunching together
              (not like the universe 7).

          -   A datum, data does not make – so for now, our sole friend’s ($XLB) presence within
              the Propagation Zone is comforting in that it shows our anticipated tool for monitoring
              this current market downside is still working (but perhaps less comforting for $XLB),
              but it is too early to extend this finding any more for now.

Thus, 𝑉𝑉 2 is telling us that things are still evolving but the cake isn’t quite ready to take out of the
oven just yet.

Overall, the data seem rather pointed:

          -   VoExes for $SPY and $QQQ are well within the Propagation Zone. This is an indication
              for persistent and sustained downside on the short-to-medium term.
          -   The Hedging Environments are mostly unchanged but so far, the introductory
              purchasing support has only worked to insufficiently absorb an eager ask.
          -   Put sellers seem to be running for the hills as their own behavior caused massive
              movements in $QQQ’s volatility surfaces, and since then, no one seems to be eager to
              set up to the selling-plate,
          -   MWGS-data is wholly bearish with MWGS-growth being positive, the MWGS-counts
              being elevated, and GTM printing a fun positive print.
          -   𝑉𝑉 2 is activated we can say; it is demonstrating persistent over-heating but without the
              usual signs of a market-wide correction still.

Thus, it seems reasonable that an over-arching bearish outlook would be most prudent. Should
any positive days or even a positive week manifest I am inclined to consider it a consequence of
instability rather than a signal-of-reversal unless the green-age is accompanied by:

          -   Persistent non-gamma squeeze status on $SPY and $QQQ
          -   Drastic reduction in MWGS-counts,
          -   Negative GTM,
          -   DLP resurgence,
          -   No drastic VoEx responses (such as spiking back into the Inhibition Zone).

Additionally, it may be particularly insightful this week as both $SPY and $QQQ are finally testing
LDPM-89 on the daily ($SPY’s LDPM-89 is at ~$433 [current price: $436.50] and $QQQ’s is at $353
[current price: $358.13].


7
    Извините, Александр Фридман, здесь нет сжатия Вселенной.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                             08/21/2023
It isn’t too uncommon to see some leveling-out/small bounce on the major LDPM levels –
however given the overall data prints, it seems reasonable that these levels will be heavily tested
in the coming days.



What fun we may have before us –

Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        08/21/2023
