                                   Weekly Chat 06/05/2023


                                          Main Points


    -   $QQQ is demonstrating VoEx Divergence
    -   GTM is positive
    -   VoEx Variance is suggestive of a near-term correction
    -   Bullish-until-proven-otherwise has been replaced with “waiting for the imminent
        otherwise”



                                           SUMMARY


           The markets are becoming quite turbulent!

           VoEx on $QQQ is demonstrating Divergence – a sign that would tell us
           when this bull run is nearing its local maximum. Although the downside
           hasn’t been indicated just yet, as VoEx hasn’t migrated out of the Inhibition
           Zone, it may not be much longer.

           DLP behavior is rather moot again with an almost complete flattening of
           put selling heading into the week ahead.

           The hedging environments are unsupportive as before but we are starting
           to find ourselves moving quick from a bullish environment. This might
           make the lack of $-/IV+ purchasing support more apparent in the weeks
           ahead than the previous few weeks.

           MWGS data offer slightly conflicting views but GTM is printing positive
           values, a bearish finding; despite a recent reduction in gamma squeeze
           counts.

           VoEx Variance is demonstrating variance values ~1 which is historically
           associated with near-future market downsides. In looking at the
           distribution of VoEx throughout the market, we see that since 03/2023,
           VoExes throughout the market have predominately been moving
           northward into the I.Z.

           Overall the data suggest that our long anticipated downside may be fast
           approaching – and with VoEx Divergence on $QQQ it seems largely
           unreasonable to have an outright bullish stance.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         06/05/2023
                                           DETAILS




Hello everyone!

Last week we nervously left off with the notion that we should be bullish-until-proven-
otherwise, and with $SPY up 1.89% and $QQQ up 1.80%, it seems that we weren’t too far
off the nose.

Most of this overall was due to Thursday and Friday so it may be useful to take a quick
beep at and around those dates to see what the data were up to.

Starting out with the hedging
environment for the week, on first
inspection we see that our fears
about local selling pressure being
present     weren’t      completely
unwarranted as the index started out
the week red.

This downwards pressure seems to
have been handled relatively well by
the market, such that it caused
negligible increases in IV, which kept
the hedging environment from
moving very far from gamma
neutrality and purchasing support.

The reduced effect of the selling pressure on price action along with the exaggerated
response to purchasing support suggests the hedging environment wasn’t “setting the
pace” for the market this week: the market, in its overall bullish state, quickly digested the
selling pressure but was strongly boosted by the purchasing support. This week, it would
seem, the hedging environment was performing less of a central role and more of a
support role.

This obviously leads us with the question: if it wasn’t the hedging environment, what was
it?

And to that I say: who knows! Sometimes it is nice to get a clear picture of what is going
on via the hedging environments but sometimes its just simply not the hedging
environment that is leading the charge.

However, when the hedging environment is clearly not the one in charge – where can we

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    06/05/2023
look to see what is? I mean, certainly we can find it in the data somewhere, right?

Nope! Not in DDS’ data at least – but I’d argue that’s just the point. DDS’ is designed to
provide contextless data about the market. There are times where through a combination
of data, a reasonable cause can be identified. These occasions are enjoyable, but they
are not prerequisite to the benefits of the data. To see this, lets look at the data for
Wednesday 5/31.

The first up is $SPY’s VoEx:

Despite         Tuesday’s      and
Wednesday’s downside, we see
that VoEx decided not to do much
about it: no dips into the
Propagation Zone or erratic
movements. In other words, there
was little by way of VoEx
suggesting on Wednesday that our
bullish-until-proven-otherwise
(BuPo) should be altered.

Were there data elsewhere that might have suggested so?

Not in the DLPs:




The DLPs, unlike VoEx, do not just simply suggest that BuPo should be replaced but the
rather significant up-tick in DLP performance suggests the put sellers were emboldened
in their bullish outlooks, come Wednesday.

As counter points, however, the 31st also saw the MWGS (Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze)
data continue to print bearish prints for the future with positive 5-day GS growth and a


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                 06/05/2023
positive GTM. Would this alone have been enough to change the outlook?

I don’t think so – I think it more reinforces BuPo as these data simply highlight the
instability found in the foundations of the market; something that we have also been
aware of already (and these data prints are largely the same as before).

Nonetheless, all without knowing anything about anything that’s happening in the market,
we can see that by looking at VoEx’s lack-of-response to early-week downside, DLPs
renewed vigor in selling volatiltiy, and MWGS data being mostly the same as before,
although Wednesday’ data may not have re-invigorated a outright bullish outlook, I think
it did little to disrupt BuPo.

So, with that out of the way – let’s look towards our futures.

$ES_F1




Starting as usual with will take a peek at $SPY and $QQQ’s VoExes:
Hmm.

Hmmmmm.

HMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM

Okay enough of that.

There is a finding in one of these VoExes that I think is relatively important that one use
who uses VoEx should be able to identify. Take a moment and look at the VoEx graphs
above and see if you agree.
..
..
..

1
    heh. get it?

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                 06/05/2023
Starting with $SPY on the left, we see a relatively decent VoEx spike into the Inhibition
Zone. If is worht nothing perhaps that this large VoEx movement occurred on a day that
$SPY moved greater than its EPR. What does this mean for us? Well, a stock (or index)
that moves greater than its Expected Price Range is typically at-risk for mean reversion
(in this case: downside). In combination with VoExes response to the price appreciation
(VoEx Spike) it suggests that not only is $SPY at-risk for mean reversion but it is being
placed at-risk while already in a high-risk-state of downside (per VoEx). Quite the combo!

But it isn’t $SPY’s VoEx that has caught my attention but rather $QQQ’s. Let’s look a little
closer.

Enhance!




Hark! For VoEx Divergence is upon us!

What does this mean? A quick recap: VoEx Divergence is typically associated with near-
term corrections 2 that tend to be rapid and significant. In our case, it would indicate to
use the start of the next “dip”.

2
 I recommend checking out Weekly Chat 05/22/2023 as it has some recent examples of VoEx Divergence, as well
as the Tier II Material.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                 06/05/2023
In the typical course of events, the price will stagnate as VoEx continues its descent out
of the Inhibition Zone whereby once it reaches the boundaries of stability, the price
correction will commence. We can see this process (albeit on a smaller scale) in 02/2023
and 04/2023 (coincidentally we are at 06/2023!) on $QQQ’s VoEx.

[Quick rant: notice how in 04/2023, shortly after VoEx-trend touched stability, $QQQ
experienced that large downwards VoEx spike? If you indulge some hand-waving – to me
it appears as though the natural downside that should have followed was interrupted.
This interruption (or the lack of subsequent continued downside) provoked substantial
instability, sending VoEx rapidly back into IZ where it has continued to climb ever since!].

The presence of VoEx Divergence on $QQQ definitively invalidates BuPo philosophy.
Although the timing of the initiation of the downside may be difficult (we have to wait until
VoEx leaves the Inhibition Zone), its inevitability is quite persistent.

With the prospect of rather-strong downside becoming ever-more present, we can take
some solace that at least the hedging environments aren’t terrible ? They are by-and-large
the same as we have grown accustomed to: light immediate selling pressure with little-
to-no purchasing support located $-/IV+:




The last few weeks with this orientation have been relatively unaccosted by downside,
despite the lack of purchasing support $-/IV+. Per VoEx, this isn’t too surprising as
although we have been in a purchase-less $-/IV+ environment, the market has done so in
while maintain an overall bullish stance; thus, it isn’t too surprising that selling pressure
was well tolerated and purchasing support well received.

Now, however, we find that this bullish stance is weakening – in particular since BuPo has
been rejected. Will the selling pressure be as well-tolerated as before? It might be prudent
to suspect that the answer is no.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   06/05/2023
The absence of purchasing support located $-/IV+ may find itself readily apparent in the
near future as it may be that the bid from the purchasing support may (as it has before)
find itself as the only bid in the market!

But before we get a head of ourselves and before self-subjugation to the might of VoEx
gloomy outlook commences, perhaps our DLP friends offer a different view.




It doesn’t appear so! With an almost complete cessation of DLP activity on $QQQ (the 5-
day average percent change has dropped to near-zero) and $SPY’s not-far-behind
behavior, it would seem those-who-sell-puts haven’t the zeal as before.

(Or they could simply be sipping mojitos on the beach after their takings last week, who
knows.)

These data suggest that volatility sellers and price-prospecteurs aren’t too keen on a
continued bullish outlook. To be fair, they should be quite happy with their takings from
last week!

The DLP data don’t scream downside just yet but I will be keeping an eye on them as the
week progresses. Continued decline (and especially the start of negative growth) will be
a strong indicator that our DLP friends are also concerned about near-term market
downside.

Oh, to have the same outlook as the put-sellers’ outlook sounds just dreamy!

Moving towards the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data (MWGSC) we find a bit of a mix
bag – a zone of transition if you will.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                 06/05/2023
                                                            Why a zone of transition?
                                                            Consider the following:

                                                            1) The 5-Day MWGSC growth
                                                            rate (gold line, top graph) is
                                                            negative. This means that the
                                                            past 5 days have seen a
                                                            increase in the rate of gamma
                                                            squeeze destruction. This is
                                                            bullish

                                                            2) The MWGSC-Growth Trend
                                                            (black line, top graph), is
                                                            negative. This is also bullish.


                                                            3) GTM is printing positive
                                                            values. This is bearish.


                                                            So 2/3 bullish and 1/3
                                                            bearish; can these data be
                                                            rectified?

                                                           Well – whereas the MWGSC-
                                                           Growth Trend and the 5-day
                                                           MWGSC growth rate are
                                                           associated       with     future
                                                           market performance, they are
                                                           by-and-large        backwards-
                                                           facing. That is, they are based
                                                           on events that have occurred
                                                           (each MWGSC-growth metric
includes past gamma squeeze change data) in order to forecast what will occur based
on the premise that, well, once something starts it tends to keep going – until it doesn’t
(5-day GS-growth rate is negative  gamma squeezes are decreasing  market typically
goes up when gamma squeezes are decreasing  market should go up as long as this
continues).

This is why when these data are observed, they provide a “[bullish/bearish] until proven
otherwise” (sound familiar?) outlook because these data simply reflect what is – not
necessarily what will be.

GTM, on the other hand, is forwards-facing. It takes in today’ s data (no prior data) and
uses that to forecast future movements not based on what GTM has been doing or what

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                 06/05/2023
it might do, but strictly in terms of what it is doing and on what we know about what this
means for future market conditions (i.e.: GTM is positive  gamma squeezes will
increase  markets tend to go down during gamma squeeze increases  market will go
down).

Here, we see that GTM doesn’t provide “[bullish/bearish] until proven otherwise”
statements because of its known and calculated relationship with the future market’s
changes: A positive GTM is associated with negative market movements 5-days out.

In other words, I’m inclined to lean towards GTM here: I think it is reasonable to see the
MWGSC start to move up some, and thus, the rest of the MWGS data start to mimic GTM’s
outlook. Lastly, let’s take a peek at a metric we haven’t looked at in quite awhile. VoEx
Variance! 3

The idea behind VoEx Variance is that if we measure the intra-sector variance of VoEx 4
values it might tell us something. But, before we get too “in-the-weeds”, let’s just stare at
VoEx variance for a minute and see what we can come up with.




Our first graph (above) is the raw 40-day rolling median for VoEx Variance. There are a
few interesting associations between VoEx Variance, intra-sector behavior, and market

3
  For those who haven’t met VoEx Variance yet, check out Weekly Chats 2023-03-20, 2023-01-30, 2023-01-
17, 2023-01-03, 2022-12-12, 2022-11-28, and 2022-11-06 as good places to start getting familiar with it.
4
  This means that all of the stocks for all of the sectors ($XLF, $XLB, $SPY, $QQQ, .etc) have their VoEx
values calculated. Then, we see how spread out these values are (we measure their variance). The more
spread out, the higher the variance inside of that sector is the more spread out the VoEx values within
that sector are, and conversely, if the VoEx values within these sectors are clustered together, we would
see low variance values.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                             06/05/2023
performance. Notice how when variance suddenly drops (2018-09-01, 2020-03-01, 2022-
01-01), the market tends to experience large downsides very shortly afterwards.
But, aside from all that, lets take a closer look. The raw data can be a bit much at times
with all of its squigglies, so let’s make things nice and smooth, and see what we see:




That’s a little better! With a slightly clearer picture, some trends become more observable.


Well – the first, and perhaps most obvious, behavior is that since 2018, all major market
downturns occurred after:
  1) A rise in VoEx variance across the market to a value of ~1
  2) A market-wide decline in VoEx Variance
  3) Market corrects

Thus, on the surface, it would appear that the market is at the end of step (1) in the
aforementioned steps, suggesting that a decline in VoEx Variance should be next,
followed by a decline in the market. Okay – but can this be backed by any kind of intuition,
or should the colorful lines be simply taken at face-value?

Since VoEx Variance tells us how spread out VoEx Values are within a sector, why don’t
we simply map out where the distribution of VoExes are themselves; if the VoEx groupings
can be visualized directly, perhaps this well help contextualize step (2), and ultimately,
step (3).



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  06/05/2023
In doing so we produce the above graph.

The top graph shows the distribution of VoEx Values per Sector as of 06/02/2023, and
the bottom graph shows the same but for 03/13/2023 (at or around the bottom of the
last dip).

The red dashed line on the left represents the Propagation Line, and the line on the right,
the Inhibition Line.

Starting with 03/13/2023’s graph. The last dip started around 02/2023 whereafter in the
subsequent month, the $SPY fell 7%. In such an environment it is very likely that the
majority of VoExes were well positioned inside of the Propagation Zone – and that is
exactly what we see with the distribution of VoExes: the majority of the lines and their
peaks are within the Propagation Zone.

Since then, the market has appreciated 12% ($SPY), during which time one would expect
VoExes by-and-large to move out of the Propagation Zone and into stability. In a robust
bullish environment, on might even expect a few stocks to start peaking their heads into
the Inhibition Zone, as growth accelerates in a post-dip bullish environment. In this type
of environment, we’d expect the majority of the peaks of the distributions to be within
stability (between the two red dashed lines), with a few tails extending into the P.Z., and
I.Z.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                 06/05/2023
Is that what we see currently?

Kind of but not really. Here we see VoEx values throughout the market are split (the curves
are spread out and extend into all 3 zones! This is what is printing the high variance
values) in thirds: 1/3 of the market is in the P.Z., 1/3 in stability, and 1/3 in the Inhibition
Zone.

This is not ideal as it suggests the market’s stability is surrounded by equal-amounts of
instability: one in the form of already-present-downwards-instability (all of the VoExes that
are in the P.Z.), and one in the form of about-to-be-downwards-instability (all of the VoExes
that are in the I.Z.).

A precarious market to be in!

So, how does step (1) proceed to step (2)? VoEx Divergence and VoEx Spikes! The stocks
that represent the VoExes that are to the right of the Inhibition Line are Persistently
OverExposed VoExes (i.e.: the same type of VoEx that $QQQ has). This VoEx behavior, as
we have mentioned, typically resolves with VoEx Divergence or VoEx Spikes into the P.Z.

As this occurs, the distribution or grouping of VoExes will bunch together as all of the
market’s VoExes move into the P.Z. (and the market’s distribution starts to move towards
3/13’s); as this happens, VoEx Variance drops, and since VoExes throughout the market
are grouping within the P.Z., this spells downside.

In sum,

   1) VoEx on QQQ showing divergence,
   2) Positive GTM values,
   3) Unstable hedging environments, and
   4) VoEx Variance reaching values of ~1 market-wide,

seem to suggest that the otherwise is quite near.

So, for the week ahead I am going to sit back a tad and watch to see who flinches first:
the market or VoEx.

Happy trading,

Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     06/05/2023
