                                   Weekly Chat 02/20/2024


                                          Main Points


           -   $SPY and $QQQ have VoEx Divergence with VoEx-Trend encroaching on the
               Inhibition Line.
           -   Gamma Hedging Heatmaps are in a vanna unstable, orientation with diffuse
               selling pressure.
           -   Put-selling is near-zero on $SPY and $QQQ.
           -   Gamma-Trending Metric has started to print negative values.
           -   In preponderance of the evidence, prudency suggests bracing for downside.

                                           SUMMARY



          Divergence on $SPY and $QQQ has continued to progress, along with
          recent VoEx-Spike behavior.

          This divergence prevents renewed adoption of BUPO (of the Bullish
          Variety) which highlights the unstable component of BUPO’s bullish and
          unstable paradigm.

          Hedging Heatmaps provide little insight into changing conditions as they
          have, in fact, not changed much: vanna unstable orientation with mild and
          diffuse selling pressure; the standard du jour of the day.

          Put selling remains low-to-zero for $SPY and $QQQ, suggesting little
          confidence in profitability with a $+/IV- future. Or perhaps rich people
          don’t do 4-day weeks. Monday will tell; but for now, these prints do little to
          inspire bullish confidence.

          GTM has broken away from its obsessively large prints-of-late and
          produced the first showing of a negative GTM; a telling of short gamma
          starting its flow towards the market.

          All-in-all, prudency suggests there is reasonable downside risk and, as
          such, a neutral-to-bearish outlook for the week ahead.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         02/26/2024
                                             DETAILS




Hello one and all!
Another week in the market has passed. Last week, there was some concern regarding this week
with regards to growing concern for bearish price-action, and it appeared the start-of-the-week
was in agreeance with us somewhat, with $SPY experiencing an early-week downturn of ~-0.4%
and $QQQ experiencing a downturn of 1.15%.
Overall, the week ended green, however, with $SPY finishing 1.67% for the week, and $QQQ, 1.44%.
The short-week can be viewed in an even shorter graph below:




A quick tease with luke-warm selling pressure only to rebound in the later-half of the week.
An uninspiring week which, perhaps thankfully, leaves our inquires things straightforward for us
this week: to BUPO (of the Bullish variety) or not to BUPO1? That is the question we shall try to
answer forthwith.
After trying to answer said question, we will also take a quick detour to look at some new VoEx
graphs!
So, let’s get started.




1
    Of the bullish variety.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       02/26/2024
This is us getting started
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see that our weekend-market-warrior life is made somewhat more
straightforward with BUPO (of the Bullish variety) still present on both:




$SPY’s VoEx[-trend] Divergence is still present, and thus, there is increased risk of downside and
the end of BUPO [of the Bullish variety]. A more nascent conundrum of recent times is the
purgatory of “Not BUPO” [of the Bullish variety] but also “Not BUPO” [of the Bearish variety] which
creates a zombie-like state of NUPO (neither until proven otherwise?) until BUPO returns or VoEx
falls into the P.Z., which would start off a round of BUPO.
Moving onto $QQQ, much the same:




Divergence with a side of VoEx Spike.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        02/26/2024
In sum, it doesn’t seem quite fitting to call this BUPO (of the Bullish variety) but we might be
kicking ourselves next week for playing “where do we want the data to be” versus “where is the
data”.
Nonetheless, it can’t be denied that VoEx-Divergence and VoEx Spiking are the hallmarks of near-
term spaß2, so a close eye will be kept on VoEx in the coming days.
Moving on from VoEx towards the Hedging Environments (not pictured) we see: the same, so I’ll
skip their inclusion this week to save some digital trees but you can take my word for it: vanna
unstable with staunch lukewarm selling pressure all around us like Neo in the vat.

Moving towards perhaps something more tantalizing, we see a small twinge of activity within the
put-sellers on $QQQ:




A curious showing this week from them, given how bullish things performed in the later-half of
the week. This curiosity extends naturally towards next week with an equally-absent showing of
put-selling.

Bullish? Not quite. Bearish? Kinda. Enough to hang my hat on? Not quite.
In other news, a development over in the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze neighborhood of DDS has
left its residents in quite the state, as you can see below:




2
    German for: exclusionary criteria for bullish performance.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     02/26/2024
A tiny negative gamma print! Quite the stir.

Alone, perhaps not much, but one could argue that this is, by-and-large, another small stream of
bearish data that is starting to coalesce into a reasonable river: VoEx Divergence on $SPY and
$QQQ with recent VoEx Spiking; near--zero put-selling despite an even more reasonable green
week; GTM is printing negative prints (suggesting that gamma squeezes in the market are going
to start to increase), right after the large positive complexes that we investigated last week, and
the week prior, and that were associated with 1-Month future market downturns.
This reminds me of what we used to say in the fire department:
                                                 “

                                Where there’s smoke, there’s fire.
                                                 “
And in sniffing around, things just smell smokey.
And with that, I will mostly be observing the market on Monday with a very low threshold to start
sizing into short positions as the overall trend in the data appears to be priority downwards.
Happy Trading –


Justin


Oh wait,

New VoEx?
Perhaps it is a bit early but I wanted to share a budding new version of VoEx that has recently
been cooked up. Officially, the jury is still out with regards to its efficacy as the investigations
aren’t quite complete but, even still, it doesn’t hurt to peek sometimes!



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         02/26/2024
In comparison with the original VoEx, these are much the same but with several key differences.
To highlight these similarities and differences, let’s start with an example from $SPY:




Two of the three zones have so far survived die Verwandlung: the Stable and the Propagation
Zone. The Stable Zone has been shifted up into where the Inhibition Zone used to be and is no
longer “BUPO” but rather just strictly “B”.
The old Stable Zone is more akin to the “Inhibition Zone” in function but “Inhibition” is much too
large to put into text so, the name is still up in the air.
“VoEx” now exclusively refers to VoEx-Trend within this version, and it is the main determiner of
overall price movement. This version of VoEx adheres much more strictly to the three zones: if
VoEx-trend is in the Stable Zone, the stock is likely to go up, and when it is in the Propagation
Zone, it is likely to go down.

But, what about VoEx-daily? Well, it operates much the same, but better. Now, VoEx Spikes end
where they mean to end. That means, if a VoEx Spike from the Propagation Zone only moves into
the Stall Zone(?) [middle area], then whatever price movement caused that movement is likely to
“stall out”. No more having to check some complicated graph to determine the expected
outcomes!
This newfound specificity is highlighted in the $SPY chart above in 2023-08 and 2023-10: VoEx is
in the Propagation Zone which means those VoEx Spikes were, from their very inception,
hallmarks of a bull trap since either the price was going to revert or VoEx would move into stability,
and VoEx was moving down in mid 2023-08 during the first VoEx(-Daily) Spike.
Any-who, that should be enough of me yappin’ for now. Let’s just look at some nice pictures.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           02/26/2024
First up, $NVDA:




Another change with this version of VoEx is that VoEx Divergence exists in spirit, but now, things
don’t seem to get “spicy” until VoEx-Daily or VoEx falls into the Propagation Zone. This means
that we have an ever-greater heads up most of the time!
That’s kind of what we see here: $NVDA’s VoEx-daily has spiked into the “stall” zone after it and
VoEx have been falling towards the Propagation Zone. The Spike tells us of the instability that the
recent price action is unstable, and the spike’s ending location (in the Stall Zone) tells us the likely
future moves: not up (the price should stall).
A curious observation: what fortune that earnings happened just as VoEx-Daily dipped its toes
into the Propagation Zone!
Next up, we see $GME with VoEx-daily within the “Stall Zone” while VoEx is rapidly falling towards
the P.Z:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            02/26/2024
We see that after some erratic VoEx-Daily behavior in 2023-10, and beyond, sent things into the
Stable Zone, ever since, things have progressed back towards the Propagation Zone. As VoEx
falls we see VoEx-daily, residing within the “Stall Zone”. The interpretation? Stall-to-down.

Next up, a curious sight: $JPM, who was sporting quite the bullish VoEx, but much like $GME,
things seem to be cooling off:




Perhaps things will rebound back into Stability – as it is still technically a bullish print, but for now,
if one were to conjecture, it looks like a reunion in the Propagation Zone is in view.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                              02/26/2024
I’ll leave things off there – take some times and look through these and let me know what you
think! There’s still a good bit to do but it might not hurt to keep an eye on things with this new
VoEx occasionally until things get finalized.

Also, real quick!
There’s going to be a bit of a delay in the normal data updating time – I am trying to integrate the
new LDPM into the dashboard and market scan but I under-estimated the processing time issues
with the new Algorithm.
The next step of progress is focused on three main things: The Robot, the Dashboard, and
Educational Materials. The next steps for the Dashboard include updating the market scan to
include the new LDPM, incorporating the new LDPM into the graphing functionality, some UI
changes, and a data verification / update for the new/removed/modified tickers out there.

Concurrently, the educational material is going to get renewed, starting with the LDPM Primer and
Market Scan Primer. These, obviously, need a nice boost. I also put together an LDPS Primer that
I will release soon. Down-the-line, more revisions will be performed on the other Educational PDFs.

The Robot is coming along well – just needs some code refactoring for the trailing stop. Other
than that, the upgrades are going well and the Beta version should be available, hopefully, within
the month. I plan on having the Beta version out and update-free for 6-months, during which time
you will all have access. As the 6-Month mark approaches, we will begin discussing the next
steps.

Overall, things are happening, I suppose.
‘Til next time,

Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         02/26/2024
