                                  Weekly Chat 07/17/2023


                                          Main Points


    -   VoEx on $SPY and $QQQ rose steadily into the Inhibition Zone throughout the week,
        officially marking another round of bullish-until-proven-otherwise.
    -   Put sellers don’t seem particularly thrilled for the week a head but put selling is in a
        net-positive state giving a soft-bullish print.
    -   Hedging environments are much-the-same as last week except $QQQ’s diminished
        available purchasing support.
    -   MWGSC data is bullish with GTM printing negative values and the MWGS-growth in
        negative territory as well.
    -   VoEx Variance is showing market-wide drops in VoEx Variance values for all sectors
        except for $KRE.
    -   LDPM Crossover data is suggestive of an increasingly aggressive ask throughout the
        market.
    -   LDPM-LL shows robust liquidity on the S&P 500 suggesting that a successful LDPM-
        55 crossover on the daily timeframe may be brewing but is not proximal.


                                          SUMMARY


           The data are predominantly “bullish-until-proven-otherwise” due to VoEx’s
           behavior on $SPY and $QQQ.

           Hedging environments have significantly less purchasing support in the
           event of a $-/IV+ move but isn’t restrictive in the event of a $+/IV- week
           due to the $+/IV- extension of the gamma neutral zone.

           VoEx Variance, and the LDPM-Crossover data are all suggestive that
           something is indeed unstable in the market: the ask is becoming a bit
           more aggressive, and VoEx Variance values are falling in unison (except
           for $KRE for some reason). Data consistent with BUPO.

           LDMP-Liquidity Levels show robust liquidity levels between $SPX and the
           LDPM-55, suggestive that in the event of a bearish-crossover attempt,
           there is reasonable expectation that it would fail, given how much liquidity
           there is present currently.

           Overall, another round of BUPO with a side-eye towards VoEx (VoEx
           Spikes, and VoEx Divergence), GTM, and LDPM throughout the week
           weeks ahead.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        07/17/2023
                                               DETAILS




What a week!
Last week, we left off with the idea that the data were still pointing bearish but that “I want[ed] to
see some commitment from VoEx before I put a ring on some puts.” And indeed, with VoEx
returning back into the Inhibition Zone on for $SPY and $QQQ, it seems some caution on VoEx’s
behalf was warranted.
So now, the data analysis is rather straightforward: since we are in BUPO, we simply need to look
to see if there are any rogue waves in bound and/or if there are any signs that BUPO is ending.
If not – then the music seems to have resumed and up is the name-of-the-game.
Let’s dive in!
The sea: she be green
This week started off slow but quickly progressed to a +2.45% week for $SPY and +3.50% week
for $QQQ. We can visualize the progress throughout the week below:




Quite the curvy moves through the relatively light selling pressure throughout the week! It is
curious to note, as well, that the other week we discussed how $QQQ’s and $SPY’s hedging
environments were producing noticeable differences in their movements, and this week seems
to be no different with $QQQ having proximal purchasing support (unlike $SPY) resulting in a
move that was 30% more than $SPY in relative terms.
That’s quite the boost from some purchasing support!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           07/17/2023
Moving towards this week’s VoEx prints, since we are in BUPO again (because, as we will see
below, VoEx is back in the Inhibition Zone), things should progress relatively smoothly baring any
VoEx Spikes or VoEx Divergences.

                                                                  VoEx on $SPY is showing
                                                                  continued presence in and
                                                                  movement into the Inhibition
                                                                  Zone, this gives us the “Bullish-
                                                                  until-prove-otherwise” stance
                                                                  that has served us rather well
                                                                  so far (well – except for the
                                                                  one fake-out at the start of the
                                                                  month).
                                                             Despite     this      relatively
                                                             straightforward assessment of
                                                             $SPY’s VoEx, it is worth noting
                                                             that the VoEx’s behavioral
change that was first mentioned in late 05-2023’s weekly chats seems to be worsening and
progressing.
Truthfully, there are no hard-and-fast rules for when
VoEx changes in its behavior overall but there are
some prior examples that come to mind when looking
prior episodes of such VoEx Changes1:
There’s $CHPT from 09/16/2022 (right), which
promptly fell 46% over the next 67 days. Then there’s
$PLTR from 07/13/2023 (below, left) and $GME
(below, right): that underwent quite a drastic change in
VoEx behavior following a VoEx Spike following an
episode of BUPO.




1
    These are all sourced from prior Tweets about VoExes.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        07/17/2023
$QQQ’s VoEx is similar in both
location and behavior.
What does this have to do with us?
Well – just a nod to the idea that we
are in-deed in BUPO but an
increased awareness of unstable
VoEx is an unstable stock.
But enough of that unpleasant talk
- we are in bullish country now, so
let’s try to keep up the bullish vibes.
To do so, let’s quickly turn over to
the hedging environments:




Just the same as before, except that $QQQ finds itself with diminished purchasing support in the
$-/IV+ quadrant but with a reasonable path towards gamma neutrality with a $+/IV- move.
Last week we did some fancy calculations in looking at how the price would have to drop relative
to IV for $QQQ to run into purchasing support, and we found that if the movements needed to be
1:1, $QQQ accomplished that about 8% of the time.
It stands that the odds may be less in our favor that should $QQQ need the purchasing support
or the week ahead, it will reach it. Nonetheless, with a rather well-defined $+/IV- path onwards
and upwards provided by gamma neutrality, perhaps the chances of needing said purchasing
support are minimal.
Do our put-selling friends agree?




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     07/17/2023
They don’t seem to disagree, per se
as there is still net selling of puts
going on, but it does seem rather
lackluster ; especially from our more
flamboyant friends.
It can be easy to fall into the trap of
reasoning “why” the put-selling is so
low: could the week’s greater-than-
EPR movements throughout the
week be threatening to the put
sellers due to the increased risk of
mean-reversion? Is IV simply too low
to sell puts for profit?
Perhaps the world may never know -
but for now, it would seem that the
put-sellers, for whatever reason,
aren’t too thrilled to be selling puts
en masse but are comfortable with
small sizing.
The Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze
Data (MWGS-data) also point to
some rather hefty gamma squeeze
closures over the past 10 days,
despite the most recent Friday
seeing a slight up-tick.
With GTM printing negative values,
and with the MWGS-growth values



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            07/17/2023
showing persistent destruction, these are squarely bullish prints.
So – it would seem there isn’t that much to interrupt the BUPO outlook for the week ahead.
However, we should still look at the second half of BUPO to verify that 1) the suggestion of
downside is still in our futures; and 2) if we can try to time it some.
To see just how the post-BUPO behavior might look like, let’s take a peek at a few data.
The first is VoEx Variance!




It would seem that the sudden decline of VoEx Variance (the same one we noted last month) is
continuing with all but $XLRE showing steadily decreasing values over a 40-day rolling period.
That’s a pretty strong data-print: you’ll notice that all of the VoEx Variance values dropping is
typically what occurs before a market downturn!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       07/17/2023
Moving from VoEx, let’s look at the market from the vantage point of LDPM. Starting with the
LDPM Crossovers:




It seems that:
    1) The dominant force is bid [top graph, dots are blue]
    2) Velocity has stalled and if you squint – perhaps its going up some (if you don’t want to
       squint, that’s fine. The more granular data do show it is increasing!)
    3) Acceleration is negative!
Quiz time: what’s all this mean?

It means: the ask is becoming increasingly aggressive! (𝛿𝛿 2 ℂ < 0 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝛿𝛿ℂ𝑡𝑡 > 0).
Thus – per VoEx and per LDPM it would seem that things are, in fact, still on rocky grounds!
Continuing with our theme of LDPM, let’s look at LDPM-LL to gauge how liquidity levels on the
daily time-frame are.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          07/17/2023
We see that $SPX is well-above the LDPM-55 (purple line) but it would seem that LDPM-LL is in
the process of decreasing2:




LDPM-LL peaked on the 15th of June, and has been diminishing ever since.
However, as with all trend-lines, they work until they don’t, so it’ll be worth keeping an eye on –
especially since this amount of liquidity being present typically infers a good “buffer” before an
LDPM crossover (with the LDPM-55) occurs and is successful (for instance, check out Dec 2022
an LDPM crossover without the corresponding LDPM-Liquidity Level is almost always reversed)3.
Thus, what do we make of these new data?
Something seems to be brewing through all of this bullish performance: VoEx Variance is starting
to fall (except for $KRE for now); LDPM Crossovers are showing an increasingly dominant ask;
and LDPM-LL is showing a possible start to liquidity decline on the S&P 500 but with quite the
nice “buffer” standing between the current environment and a successful LDPM-55 crossover.
All that to say: bullish-until-proven-otherwise!
Happy trading,


Justin


2
  I don’t want to hear it. Yes – that green line is a trend line. Yes - I, me, Justin, applied it to my chart without
coercion. Although I am typically not a fan of trend lines, one of the strange things about LDPPM-LL is that once its
trajectory is “set”, it rarely seems to deviate. So, if it ain’t broke – don’t fix it!
3
  The work on the primer information and back-testing is starting on LDPM-LL and it should be ready here shortly!
It should be noted that although LDPM-LL is from LDPM, it will only be available to you, my dear readers, the
premium members.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                         07/17/2023
