                                    Weekly Chat 2025-04-14


                                           Main Points



    -   VoEx-daily has spiked but stopped short of stability. VoEx stands within the Propagation
        Zone.
    -   Gamma-Hedging Heatmaps show support for a [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] week ahead.
    -   Dealer-Long Put behavior remains near-zero with little acute activity noted.
    -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data show a slight easing of gamma squeezes but
        anticipate continued growth.
    -   LDPM/S for VX suggest downside is likely with LDPM/S for ES showcasing available
        bull-trap avenues.
    -   VoEx Variance data showcase a market still sliding into the Propagation Zone.
    -   Prudency suggests bulltrap +2 - +4% in pursuit of 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − followed by return to downside.

                                           SUMMARY



           This week, the market reacted significantly in pursuit of achieving gamma-
           neutrality in an 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − direction. In taking this behavior as pattern and
           extending it into the upcoming week, an image of continued bull-trap
           performance with distinct ceilings emerges.

           VoEx-daily has spiked but is resting just shy of stability; VoEx itself rests
           within the Propagation Zone for $SPY and $QQQ.

           The Gamma-Hedging heatmaps showcase a potential route towards
           gamma neutrality in the [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] avenue, which is supported by LDPM/S
           analysis on VX which showcases a bear-trap underway on the lower
           intervals and bullish liquidity on the higher intervals. These data are in
           strong support of a continued bulltrap performance.

           Despite these expectations, dealer-long put activity reduced and has
           stayed reduced even as the week saw massive reductions in IV.

           LDPM/S analysis suggests the market is set-up for a +2 – +4% bull-run
           after which a swift return to downside seems the prudent anticipation.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-04-14 to 2025-04-18
                                             DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week someone had the strangest idea that downside was neigh, baring some exceptional
circumstances, and it would appear the market, in favor of this exceptionality, produced equally
exceptional prints to the upside. For these prints, $SPY produced 5.67% to the affirmative while
$QQQ produced 7.51% in kind! These values definitely require a chart:

 Symbol             T+5 Anticipated T + 5 Realized          T + 5 Ratio         T+5 %-
                    Move (±%)       Move (%)                (Real / Ant.)       magnitude Dif.


 $SPY                  4.18                5.67               1.35               30.25

 $QQQ                  4.89                7.51               1.53               42.26



These moves are surprisingly not as extravagant as last week’s with regards to EPR-
normalization. You’ll remember, last week saw T+5 ratios of 4.25 and 3.62 for $SPY and $QQQ
respectively. It would appear the market is getting somewhat better at anticipating volatility.
To this end, we ask ourselves “do these prints provide additional risk for mean-reversion”, and the
answer seems to be “yuh kinda”. This risk is not as large as we’ve historically experienced (it
appears that just around the 1.25-ish benchmark starts adding some real mean-reversion risk into
the ether) but they are certainly within the appropriate range for conjuration.
Below we can see also the exceptional acrobatics the market performed this week, sliding up and
down the boundary zone betwixt selling pressure and purchasing support (likely using the sum of
the latter to fend off the former):




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-04-14 to 2025-04-18
Of particular surprise is the lack of imagination past Justin had with regards to anticipating how
earnestly gamma neutrality will be sought (said surprise shouldn’t surprise given yo my lack of
imagination for surprises). For instance, remember from last week the general outlooks were
something like this:




The middle line is what I expected the market would do after sliding some, in pursuit of gamma
neutrality. That is, it would go up down some, reach towards gamma-neutrality in a predominately
𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − fashion, and then slide back down as the gamma neutrality was reached.
What the imagination was not capable of producing, however, was the notion that this gamma-
grab towards neutrality would bypass the most proximal and direct route to gamma neutrality
(simply moving spot-down some) but rather the one at the far end of the [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] alley:




The market never fails to surprise !
Additionally, if we peek at the heatmaps from intra-week, we see
that conditions on the 8th were quite dire, from a hedging
perspective ($SPY shown on right and $QQQ below it).
Well – at least for $SPY. It would seem that $QQQ’s persistent
put-selling in recent months might have been paying off! You’ll
remember from Weekly Chat 2025-03-24 that we briefly
discussed how dealer-long put accumulation can produce
downstream protection (as dealer long puts will provide
increasing short delta as price declines, mandating that hedging
be long) – what a irony that $SPY’s more picky put-selling!



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-04-14 to 2025-04-18
Nonetheless, the decisions made were made and so let’s look forward to which decisions to
make.
The obvious first point of inquiry this week is: is the bottom in? And if so, wut? Then, if the bottom
does not appear to be in, should we expected a continued bull-trap performance or an immediate
return to downside?
If VoEx Spikes in the Woods and No One is Around to See It Does It Still Make a Bull Trap?
Starting with VoEx, as usual, we see:




Continued presence of VoEx within the Propagation Zone, which entails a bearish-until-proven-
otherwise outlook (BUPO of the bearish variety). In the more near-term, we see VoEx-daily doing
a spike again – but this time, unlike in more recent times (mid-to-late March ’25) the price
movement is quite large and the `spike` quite small (as opposed to the price movement small and
the spike large). So small, in fact, we see that on both $SPY and $QQQ, the VoEx-daily Spike has
hardly reached into Stability.

These data bring with them acknowledgement of our current bull-trap as well as a reduced
expectations for continued bull-trap performance1. Nonetheless, even with this reduced
expectation, VoEx-daily not being within the P.Z. is enough of a data-print to spare the complete
destruction of continued bull-trap performance. A definitive move back to the P.Z. in the coming
days would solidify this reduced expectation whereas another spike northward or continued
migration northward would work to refurnish expectations and bullish outlooks.
For now, however, VoEx paints a bearish picture of unsustainable bull-trap performance.
With these flows in mind, let’s check on the hedging heatmaps to see how the market might be
prepared to handle them:




1
    For instance, take a peek at similar behavior in 2023-09-01, 2023-10-01 vs. 2023-11-01.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                     for the week of                   2025-04-14 to 2025-04-18
Reasonably well!
In fact, these heatmaps look to be in opportunistic positions to augment the reduced-but-
continued bull-trap expectations (as reduced from VoEx) by-way of consistent and reasonable
purchasing support in the [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] manner! Should the market find itself capable, it would seem
simply existing within the hedging environment would provide bullish flows up and to the left.




Some hand-waving suggests these are the possibilities to keep an eye out for. It will be left to the
reader to determine the likelihood of each of the progressions, but suffice to say that it seems
the market is, in recent times, quite keen on lowering IV to the maximum extent possible. This
suggests left-and-up is most likely, but should the market find itself incapable of manifesting a
diminished implied volatility, the only escape from selling pressure will be an awkward glide-down
(and possibly towards gamma neutrality in the [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + ] direction) or the market will experience
one of those strange [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +] weeks in which everyone becomes slightly more uncomfortable.
Since it seems that there is a good amount of emphasis placed on the particularities of IV, let’s
quickly gauge volatility expectations, by taking a peek at VX futures:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-04-14 to 2025-04-18
The main take-away for me here is that a VX decrease seems likely but overall, a bull-trap is well
formed and underway!2

From this view, a continued bull-trap-bounce seems reasonable, as if we do some (admittedly
napkin) math, movement in VX to the next organic floor at 24.47-ish, which is a ~14.75% reduction
in `IV`. This confers to a movement in $SPY’s IV to ~0.27 and $QQQ’s IV to about 0.31! If we map
these values onto the hedging heatmaps, we see that these values confer a much higher
probability of continued bull-trap performance, as we can see the reduction in IV as such favors
the left-most projection:




2
 Note the Aggressive Bid Cascade on VX 1-week view! It is still in its infancy as we don’t see any of the resulting
eager bids rising up (like we do on the 987-minute) to capture profit! This means the wave-“crash” (or “scoop” if it
were an Aggressive Ask Cascade) still remains, which infers continued bullish performance. Basically, Bullish-until-
proven-otherwise and otherwise is the presence of eager asks.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                   for the week of                   2025-04-14 to 2025-04-18
Should these IV values be reached in accordance to VX testing the near-by organic bids (as seen
on the 90-, and 144-minute intervals), then reason stands that this would be an amble spot to re-
investigate VX liquidity and the hedging environments to see if there are any signs that the bull-
trap continueth or if it will likely degrade (as expected).
Thus, from just these data, it appears that a bull-trap is indeed in the works and its end may be
neigh but it does not seem currently present. To this end, it appears that the market is in pursuit
(quite robustly) of a lower VX/`IV` moreso than bullish spot performance, and it may well be that
said market has sufficient oomph to accomplish this.
Moving onwards, we encounter, once more, our put-selling friends. While withholding judgement
as to their potential role in all this, let’s quickly assess their behavior:




Or lackthereof! It would seem that both $SPY and $QQQ’s put-selling activities have diminished
and have been kept reduced (despite the recent $+ ! ). This confers, at minimum, reduced
enthusiasm as to the enthusiasm our financial overlords have with regards to a 𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝 $+ or
𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − futures ahead.
One might well think that if the bottom were in (or at least, if the financial overlords considered
the bottom to be in) that put-selling would be in vogue! It appears, however, that this is not the
case. Perhaps timing a looming reversal is not an interesting enough of a concept when




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                2025-04-14 to 2025-04-18
compared to profiting slightly in the interim with arguably the most dangerous and exposed form
of derivatives! Who knows – certainly not I, as I am not a financial overlord3.
Setting our sights on more grand and wide views, we come across the Market-Wide Gamma
Squeeze (MWGS) data, which showcase continued gamma-squeeze nonsense!
                                                           On the top, we have the growth
                                                           curve, which seems to have peaked
                                                           in recent times. This, ordinarily,
                                                           would infer “the bottom has been
                                                           reached” assessment (see 204-04-
                                                           15 and 204-08-05) but recent peaks
                                                           have been less prone to signify such
                                                           (see 2024-12-23, 2025-03-17). In
                                                           recent times, and at best, the
                                                           reduction in the growth has caused
                                                           a flattening in price action, rather
                                                           than its reversal.
                                                           This decrease in the growth curve
                                                           seems spurred by the ~9%
                                                           reduction in GS counts week-over-
                                                           week, but counts are still up 21%
                                                           over the past 20 (trading) days, ~5%
                                                           over the past 10 days.
                                                           The Gamma-Trending Metric (GTM)
                                                           on the left suggests this reduction
                                                           may continue, if but only slightly as
                                                           its     near-neutral-but-technically-
                                                           positive behavior continues. This
                                                           indicates long-gamma flowing
                                                           towards the market (and thus, the
                                                           anticipation of GS destruction and
thus market reversion).
Let’s check on the `new-kid-on-the-block` metric, the modified MWGS growth data:




3
    Yet?????


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of             2025-04-14 to 2025-04-18
With these data we see that the Predictive Count Curve (PCC) hasn’t bent in capitulation like its
predecessor and is still pointed north! This tells us it anticipates continued growth in GS counts.
The Predictive Growth Curve (PGC) tells us the `acceleration` of the growth curve, when its
positive, acceleration is positive and when it is pointed up, its telling us that it expects the
acceleration to increase, and down, if its anticipated that the breaks are going to be applied to the
growth (and when it is negative; growth is being destroyed).
To this end, we see a positive PGC, so this means that acceleration is still positive (things are
speeding up) and overall PGC is difficult to see, so let’s zoom in :




Overall, pointed northward, as it has since ~2024-03-17ish!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-04-14 to 2025-04-18
This infers rather strong expectations of continued growth in GS counts, and thus, the continued
growth of market instability (and downside!).
So, from here, we have a view that says “likely bull-trap fueled by IV-reduction” and so it seems
that if (and when) IV stops declining, the bull-trap shall spring.
Speaking of spring, remember all the nice colors from the VoEx Variance Distribution graphs? If
not, here is the most recent data! Below is just that, with the left a hand-drawn outline of the
general “trend” of data from the earliest to the most recent data.




                                            You’ll remember from the earlier discussions that
                                            we are tracking a bit of a “cycle” here, and so if we
                                            look at the VoEx-daily Variance distribution graphs,
                                            we seem to be in the midst of step 2 still. We can see
                                            the earlier data was “peaked” just below the
                                            Propagation Line, then as the month progressed,
                                            conditions flattened out and then “re-collected” with
                                            left-tails and a peak that is deeper into the P.Z..
                                            If the market were in the thralls of step 3 (and thus,
                                            becoming somewhat stable as things move towards
stability) we would, instead,
see the peak re-form out of the
P.Z. (or at least closer to it), and
with the elevated tails on the
right-hand side.
This view is echoed if we
extract ourselves from the daily
and move to VoEx proper. In
looking at the market-wide
behavior from the start of the
year, we see that this
distribution is indeed sliding
deeper into the Propagation
Zone (right):


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of              2025-04-14 to 2025-04-18
Taken together, this reїnforces the idea of continued, protracted downside. This, by-effect,
reїnforces the notion that the market is currently undergoing a bull-trap (as for if the market did
not have a long-term bearish outlook, there would be little for the bull-trap to trap with!).
So, with the general outline forming, let’s take another peek at LDPM/S to see if we can find any
more distinct benchmarks to monitor (along with the VX above). Let’s take a look at ES futures
with `Balanced` LDPS on the 90-, 144-, 987-minute and 1-Week intervals:




Starting from the top we see in the bottom-right the 1-Week view showcasing bearish liquidity.
The good(?) news in this is that the orientation is still a bear-trap with the bullish LDPM stack.
Although this doesn’t do much in the present, it does (for now) put a silver lining on the current
market such that at least on some view we can see a bullish light at the end of the tunnel.

Zooming in, we arrive at the 987-minute which showcases bearish outlooks as well, with a
potential to test the organic ask at LDPM-L5(144) at $5,590-ish (+4% ish); this test will be,
supposing LDPS maintains its bearish liquidity, a bull-trap and thus, rejection would be the most
likely outcome. It’s also noteworthy that the `scoop` present on the 987-minute (after the AAC
around 04/04) has failed already, bringing continued doubt to the success of any up-coming
organic ask tests.
Zooming in even more we arrive at the 144-minute (top right), which is in a similar boat: bull-trap
with upcoming organic ask test at ~5,490 (~+2%). Our last stop is the 90-minute which
showcases a full bull-trap configuration with a bearish LDPM stack and bullish LDPS. On this view,
there is minimal profit-taking noted (as opposed to 12:00 on the 9th until just recently around the



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-04-14 to 2025-04-18
12th where we see the profit-taking gave way to a mini-aggressive bid cascade [note the faint
LDPM lines go from hovering around price to rapidly diving below]).
From these views, it seems like a reasonable +2% to +4% bull-trap is underway, but current
conditions from VoEx, MWGS, DLP and VoEx Variance data suggest this bullish performance is
likely unsustainable without substantial changes in the core data prints.

Given the bearish nature of VX and the gamma-neutral pathway via 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −, the bull-trap performance
seems poised to be well supported and ushered and so prudency gives a side-eye to this outcome
while bracing for continued and protracted downside.



Happy Trading!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-04-14 to 2025-04-18
