                                  Weekly Chat 10/23/2023


                                        Main Points


   -   VoEx resumed its location in the Propagation Zone for $QQQ and $SPY,
   -   Hedging Heatmaps are vanna-stable once more for $QQQ and $SPY with positive
       influence distributions and left-sided tails,
   -   DLP behavior remains uninspired despite recent increases in IV, and
   -   𝑉𝑉 2 is demonstrating robust collapse.
   -   Thus, prudency seems to be on the side of continued downside.



                                         SUMMARY



          After a failed break-out into the Inhibition Zone after a Coiling event for
          $SPY and $QQQ, VoEx has found itself in the Propagation Zone once
          more, indicative of continued downside.

          On the near-term, there may be some resistance to the downside byway
          of the vanna-stable hedging environment, however, despite this potential
          support, it would seem our put-selling friends are not betting too much of
          their reputations on selling volatility; suggestive of diminished
          confidence in a $+/IV- week a head.

          On the macro-side, MWGS data is largely moot with a continued
          elevation to the gamma-squeeze growth and an almost-positive GTM, it
          would appear gamma flows offer little influence with the recent
          instability.

          𝑉𝑉 2 is showing continued collapse which has now spread into all three
          zones. This is indicative of a proximal market correction.

          All-in-all, the data appear to be quite severe and suggestive of continued
          downside and instability.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      10/23/2023
                                               DETAILS




Hello everyone! Last week, we left off with the idea that the market was leaning into bearish
performance with a pinch of market-correction. This week, perhaps unrelatedly, $SPY moved -
2.39% and $QQQ moved -2.92%.
The force behind these moves can be gleaned from the Hedging Heatmaps in which we can see
that the market chewed through a reasonable amount of purchasing support on its way down:




Quite the moves!
Even with available purchasing support, $SPY moved 25% more than its weekly EPR (EPR T+5
±1.86%) while $QQQ moved 20% greater than its EPR T+5 (2.38%).
With these large moves in mind, one can’t help but wonder if they will continue into the long-
anticipated market correction or if we should expect a near-term bounce, as would be explained
by the mysterious and omnipresent “mean reversion” phenomenon.
Thus, this week, let’s try to pin a reasonable answer to an unreasonable question: is the market
correction here?
Reasonabilabuddy
Our first pit stop is VoEx. Last week, upon review of VoEx, there was some concern for VoEx
Coiling’s continuance into the Inhibition Zone
                                                    “
 This places concern on the continuance of VoEx Coiling’s bullish expectations as typically you would like
to see VoEx move into the Inhibition Zone to give a nice Bullish-until-proven-otherwise (BUPO) extension
                                             to the coiling.

                                                    “



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                               10/23/2023
This week, VoEx was kind enough to answer definitively after two days of stagnation at the
Inhibition Line, it retook its former locus within the Propagation Zone:




                                                             $SPY’s VoEx has moved further
                                                             southward back into the Propagation
                                                             Zone.
                                                             For now, this is bearish as usual.




$QQQ’s VoEx is much the same with
VoEx back inside of the Propagation
Zone.

This, as well, is bearish as usual.




It may be tempting to anticipate VoEx’s movements, but most-often-than-not I have found this
usually doesn’t end well – it simply does to simply read VoEx for what it has printed, not for
what it looks like it will.
So, with that in mind, it seems like VoEx’s current behavior is erratic and its current location is in
the Propagation Zone; a prime recipe for an easy-to-read and straight-forward interpretation:
downside-until-proven-otherwise.

In terms of how the market might respond to this, the Hedging Heatmaps for $SPY and $QQQ
demonstrate much-the-same as last week, with purchasing support located in the bottom right:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           10/23/2023
This purchasing support, however, has lately proven itself to be less-than-sufficient to starve off
the lack of an eager bid.
Perhaps the early part of the week will give more information as to if the dynamics of the market
have shifted: should the market progress through selling pressure without a robust rebound
back down, then perhaps an eager bid is entering the market and thereby strengthening the
nascent support.
Despite this potential support, it seems our put-selling friends over at $SPY and $QQQ remain
relatively un-enthused with any long-put-profitable positions:




                                                    Despite a reasonable increase in IV on $SPY,
                                                    we see no increase in prospecting, but rather
                                                    a near-persistent, near-zero 5-day average.




$QQQ (right) finds itself in much the same
position, despite a week-end increase in
DLPs, throughout the week, DLPs saw a
persistent decrease.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        10/23/2023
So, overall, despite a 62% increase in IV, IV-sellers haven’t seen any reason to sell IV. Not the
most bullish of anticipations!
The MWGS data is relatively moot – a positive growth and a near-positive GTM, it would seem
that gamma flows aren’t a particularly potent part of this recent movement.

Moving towards 𝑉𝑉 2 data, we see the collapse is progressing and still quite remarkable:




With a continued drop in 𝑉𝑉 2 in all three zones, it seems reasonable to say collapse is underway.
Thus, all-in-all, a rather short weekly chat as it appears there are quite the few data prints to
point us away from any views that might include reasonable risk of a modest downturn in the
market. Any bullish-rogue-waves that come will simply be rode as guided by VoEx. Overall, until
VoEx stabilizes, MWGS counts decrease, and DLP activity increase once-more, it seems rough
waters are ahead.
Happy trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        10/23/2023
