                                   Weekly Chat 2024-12-09


                                          Main Points



    -   VoEx demonstrates Bullish-until-proven-otherwise for both $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   Hedging environments are similar to last week’s with $SPY showcasing diffuse
        purchasing support while $QQQ’s diminishes.
    -   Put-selling has ceased – even from the $QQQ put sellers.
    -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data show a trend of deepening GTM values with recent
        growth noted.
    -   Heightened risk of mean-reversion-like behavior from $QQQ due to its extra-ordinary
        movement last week.
    -   Overall, bullish outlooks remain but potential risk-adjusted down-side target set.



                                           SUMMARY



          Last week, $QQQ under-performed $SPY while this week it over-performed
          it quite significantly.

          The immediate consequence of this is the introduction of mean reversion
          into our potential factors in the week ahead.

          VoEx shows minimal enthusiasm for said risk with VoEx and VoEx-daily
          well housed within stability. This brings with it and re-inforces the longer-
          term bullish outlooks.

          Hedging environments are reflective of last week’s; $QQQ’s configuration
          of minimal purchasing support continues, as does $SPY’s quagmire of
          purchasing support.

          Put-sellers have ceased for the week ahead; perhaps content with their
          recent earnings or in a showing of risk-off; either way, this minimizes the
          sharèd-ness of a shared, bullish outlook.

          Overall, the environment is bullish with some risk identifiable and relatively
          easy to track.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         12/09/2024
                                              DETAILS




Hello every-body!
Let’s start by taking note of one of the curious notes we noted from last week’s last week, which
was something along the lines of “[wow]… $QQQ moved 67% less than $SPY …”, and this week,
not to be outdone, showcased the opposite!
Week-over-week, $SPY mustered a 0.87% move but while $QQQ zoomed along at mach 3.28(%)
– resulting in a 2.01x move over what the market was expecting from $QQQ! (Last week’s T+5
EPR was ± 1.63% for $QQQ); $SPY, on the other hand, and frankly, sort of embarrassingly, falls
well short within the aforementioned omnipresent shadow of $QQQ’s success with only a ~0.75x
for $SPY.

Keeping in line with tradition of placing ratios upon ratios, in comparing movement-as-compared-
to-the-market’s-expectations-ratios between $SPY and $QQQ produces a comparison-of-
movement-normalized-against-the-market’s-expectations; this value is 0.90. In other words,
whereas last week, $QQQ moved 67% less than $SPY, this week, it moved 90% more than $SPY
(when controlling for EPR).
And, well, one can’t simply stop building ratio-blocks. If we look at the relative ratio between the
extra-ordinary movement of this (0.90) to yester-week’s (0.67), we get 1.34! Astonishing. Maybe.
Not sure the significance but it seems that $QQQ’s relative under-performance was immediately
met with a relative over-performance of almost double the magnitude!
I simply refuse to do more ratios, and you can’t make me but at least on the surface, one can’t
help but think it feels like a sort of “catch-up” on $QQQ’s behalf. Now – this outlook demands
substantial rational and, well that’s not here so take that as you will.
Let’s take a peek at the situation with the heatmaps below:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         12/09/2024
On the left, we can see $SPY spent the week in some sort of quagmire of indecision, while $QQQ
moved quite rapidly along towards gamma neutrality in an almost purely [$+] fashion. Quite
impressive!

So, this week, the task seems straightforward, we simply need to put our ears to the floor and
determine if the music is still on based on which footsteps we hear, when we hear them, and
trying to connect them to the patterns of feet movements on this old dance-card, all-the-while
keeping a particular ear out for the Mean Reversion Quartet.
After that, some quick updates about the goin’ ons and then I’ll let you be!

A
Starting as usual with VoEx, we spot VoEx in an excited state within stability:




VoEx is quite high and sound within stability – and no concerning VoEx-daily movement suggests
that overall, the expectation remains bullish and well situated within Bullish-Until-Proven-
Otherwise (BUPO) territory.
The `otherwise` component of BUPO are the features we are relatively used to keeping an eye out
for: rapid movements of VoEx-daily (and to a more severe event, VoEx itself) into the Propagation
Zone, or environmental changes such as rapid increases in gamma squeezes throughout the
market, IV-unstable hedging environments, etc.
But, taken together, VoEx paints a bullish picture for us.

Moving southwards, we find in their usual habitat, the Gamma Hedging Heatmaps:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      12/09/2024
Inspection reveals a very similar environment as compared to last week: a quagmire of
purchasing support on $SPY with a more dynamic (albeit also more diffuse) purchasing support
environment.
As compared to last week, $QQQ’s separation from selling pressure has grown, but the cost
appears to be at the expense of significant “depth” or purchasing support (compare how light this
week’s purchasing support is as opposed to last week’s!).
On the surface, this suggests bullish movements will be well-supported once more (at least for
$QQQ, who once more is the only index showing an obtainable gamma neutrality) but the risk of
an ill-response following any potential need for $QQQ to rely on the aforementioned, diffuse
purchasing support seems ever preset (such as, say, during a mean reverting event).
Nonetheless, conditions are similar to those found last week, and without any obvious additional
risks, the outlook appears similar as well (now, should $QQQ mean revert however …!)
Moving once more because we get too anxious standing in one place for too long, we arrive at
our put-selling friends’ house. Peering into their windows1 we can see what they are up to:




A bunch of nothin’! A curious sight, given their success lately (especially on $QQQ). This cessation
of put-selling does nod a bit towards the put-sellers also have at least some sort of hesitation
regarding more full-throttle-upwards market performance (is it the same as ours [i.e. basic ol’
mean reversion]? Who knows!).



1
    Nah they don’t mind promise.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         12/09/2024
But – worth keeping an eye out; especially if mean-reversion happens early within the week, and
subsequent hedging environments are still “weak” – then perhaps things will get spicy.
Moving onwards into Gamma-land, we
encounter a mixed sight:
On one hand growth rates have become
decidedly negative once more, although it
looks as though that is about to change with
the current data pointing straight up.
The market has experienced an increase
week-over-week in GS counts of about ~15%
(756 → 861).

Even more curioser is the deepening GTM –
particularly noteworthy since 2024-09-02.
Since then, it seems that there has been a
progressively increasing amount of short
gamma making its way into the market.

The suggestion from this is that the number
of GS’ should be expected to increase, likely
at a similar rate its doing now, but should this
add some instability to a mean-reverting and
sparse-hedging-environment market, then it
may present with a reasonable downside
opportunity.
For me, this slightly decreases the height to which I will raise my eye-brows at the sight of $QQQ’s
experiencing a small and then a big dip (as the mean-reversion accidentally exhausts the sparse
purchasing environment and pushes a bit close to selling pressure in the setting of a growing GS
environment), but current conditions suggest anything limited to ~$5,900 on $ES (the current
LDPM-89, -144 floor) will present a decent average down opportunity.
Extension beyond $5,900 or if VoEx indicates will likely cause another review of medium-term
condition but otherwise, dip-then-rip; as the kids say.


Happy Trading!




Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         12/09/2024
Updates
!
So, we’ve officially switched to `dd.deepdivestocks.com` for the Dashboard and there has been a
partial fix to the watch list issue.
From here, I’ll mostly continue with the work getting the new Dashboard up to snuff – currently
it’s a full rewrite and truthfully, I’m not rushing terribly on it, as I want it to be highly scalable and
robust so I’m being particularly cautious with some design choices (fingers crossed!).
My current goal is to have a working prototype of the `Data Page` that I can add to the current
dashboard so that you can play around with it and give feedback and whatnot while the rest of
the Dashboard finishes up.
Some of the features the new Dashboard will have with its first release:

    -    Super customizable and interactive graphs.
    -    An AI bot to chat with about DDS stuff and will even be able to offer some analysis help.
    -    Modeling and forecasting capabilities / correlation studies data processing capabilities.
    -    Watchlist & Alert capabilities for user-defined alerts (i.e.: alert me if X has an average of Y
         or if the forecast of X is above Z).
    -    Much more customizable and dynamic market scans.
    -    Save-able searches / data pages / etc for easier repeat analysis.


So, yeah – it’s a decent step forward and I am excited to have at least a prototype of the new
system out for your testing and feedback on within a few months!



Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                              12/09/2024
