                                 Weekly Chat 05/08/2023


                                         Main Points


    -   Red outlook for the week ahead
    -   VoEx is behaving erratically, a bearish finding
    -   The hedging environments are once again unsupportive in a $-/IV+ move and the
        influence distributions have negative outlooks for the week ahead.




                                         SUMMARY


          Last week, we anticipated a bullish performance due to VoEx’s surprise
          return to the Inhibition Zone. Since then, we have seen the markets and
          VoEx whip-tail around, chasing the news of Carl Icahn.

          This showing demonstrates that the cycle that we have been monitoring
          for the past few months is still on track, and this week seems likely for it
          to manifest with more downside.

          Hedging environments are unsupportive in a $-/IV+ move, and are very
          reminiscent of last week’s hedging environments. The influence
          distributions are predominately negative again – although there is a
          reasonable right-tail, so perhaps some thoughts towards hedging for
          upside is in order should one be placing bearish bets on the week.

          MWGSC growth is positive, also a bearish finding, despite GTM’s
          insistence that gamma squeezes should be cooling off somewhat in the
          near future.

          Our DLP-friends don’t seem to be quite as convinced regarding future
          $+/IV- moves, as their growth is significantly lower than the same time
          last week.

          Overall, a bearish outlook for the week ahead.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       04/24/2023
                                          DETAILS




What a week!
Last week we left off with the idea that the markets looked prime to continue their rally
northward. There were several data prints upon which we leaned to support these lofty
goals: VoEx had returned to the Inhibition Zone; DLPs were coming back; and GTM was
cooling off – provided sufficient ingredients for to feed our outlook.
To sour the meal that we have been looking forward to, however, stood Carl Icahn – the
man, the myth, the lunch-stealer.
The news of a potential multi-billion dollar Ponzi scheme did a cause quite a stir, and this
turbulations came at an inopportune time with both hedging environments for $SPY and
$QQQ demonstrating little purchasing support in a $-/IV+ manner.
The consequences of these two fateful star-crosséd events can be visualized below from
last Friday’s heatmaps:




$SPY moved 24% more (to the downside) than $QQQ this week – perhaps associated
with the lack of purchasing support for $SPY.
Thus, lesson learned about scoffing at minor purchasing support – as once again we are
reminded it is far better than none!
It seems the week ahead of us has a simple question, along with hopefully a simple
answer: Did Carl screw up the trajectory or is this just a small hiccup along the road?
Let’s see what the data say.
The data say:

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  04/24/2023
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see that it also did not enjoy this week’s acrobatics, with
                                                               each             undulation
                                                               rickshawing VoEx from one
                                                               zone to another.
                                                              What would the typical
                                                              interpretation here be?
                                                              Naturally, I’m inclined to
                                                              just spout my insights but I
                                                              want to ensure that I
                                                              express      my     thought
                                                              process some, so as to not
                                                              come across as a hand
                                                              waver. So, I’ll use this
opportunity as a slight learning experience – to flesh out some of the reasoning.
To do so, I’ll lay VoEx’s behavior out as I see them, and I’ll leave you to put the pieces
together; then we’ll see if we agree. First, we’ll start with some general observation:
   1) VoEx is indicating instability
Before we continue, let’s go through each of the points above:
VoEx is indicating instability
Naturally, I’m going to ask something like “what doth this signify”, but I’m more interested
first in ensuring we are both seeing the same thing – that is to say, I want to ensure we
can see how this is being conveyed.
VoEx, in colloquial terms, indicates instability whenever it is in the Inhibition Zone or the
Propagation Zone. This, the standard definition of instability, applies here as well such
that VoEx has in the span of 1 week been in both the Inhibition and Propagation Zones –
several times. This is the first argument towards instability.
The second is slightly more subjective but present nonetheless: VoEx appears itself
unstable.
Take a peek above and see if you can identify what I mean.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   04/24/2023
Notice the behavioral change?
What are your thoughts on this behavioral change?
What does this mean? (Told you I would ask).
To me, it seems as though when the trajectory that we were anticipating (downside) didn’t
come to fruition, VoEx started behaving quite unceremoniously. This suggests that
deviation from the anticipated movement is itself provoking instability – causing VoEx to
start moving erratically.
Initially, we interpreted this instability as simply VoEx rebounding into the IZ, a sign that
the bullish wave (that we were expecting to end) was going to continue:


                                              “
VoEx seems to have juked us out. With a sudden dip into the PZ followed by an immediate
return to the IZ – this action seems antithesis to our expectation that VoEx would
invariably fall into the PZ (namely because of its inching towards the IZ), and then reside
there for awhile during a downturn, and slowly start to run back up – precisely the action
typically seen during bull runs.
                                              “
I am still convinced that this was a reasonable interpretation – but now we have a clearer
picture with more evidence: VoEx wants things to go down, and it wasn’t “juking us out”
per se but rather reacting to the instability present when $SPY wasn’t going down.
Is VoEx’s bearish outlooks reflected elsewhere?


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   04/24/2023
Let’s take a peek at the hedging environment for $SPY and $QQQ:




We find ourselves with an almost exact carbon-copy from last week: little to no
purchasing support in a $-/IV+ move for $SPY, and negligible purchasing support for
$QQQ.
In both cases, the Influence Distribution is showing negative outlooks for the week ahead
– but (again) there is an appreciable right-sided tail, so perhaps some up-side risk hedging
is appropriate should one position for an overall bearish move throughout the week.
Zooming in on the dealer long puts we see a slight resurgence of DLPs, not too much but
we can’t say that they aren’t there.




Typically the DLPs are quite the salient indicator for future market performance but they,
more than most indicators in DDS’ ecosystem, are reliant on a reasonable dose of
subjectivity – i.e.: if someone somewhere with a lot of money thinks the market is going
to go up; we tend to see DLP behavior spike.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  04/24/2023
This system inherently rests on what this money thinks, and, as we saw this week, correct
most of the time doesn’t mean correct all the time – and it would seem that our DLP
friends caught the wrong-side of the trade this week.
Thanks, Carl!
In preparation for the week ahead, we will note that the DLPs haven’t quite rebounded as
much as they did at the start of last week – perhaps some caution has been instilled in
our DLPs friends.
Moving towards the MWGSC, we see
mixed signals showing up yet again with
GTM printing values that are opposite to
some of the other data prints.
Currently MWGSC growth is positive (top
graph), a bearish finding, and so let’s
keep an eye on GTM to see if it doesn’t
change its tune in the next day or so.
So, overall, a short weekly chat this
week.
To recap, last week we acknowledged
that VoEx’s performance was indicating
instability but that it was reminiscent of
an “interrupted” bearish phase and
should       present      with     bullish
performance.
This seems and feels still like a good
outlook given the data we had. Then Carl
happened and caused a lot of organic
ask to enter the market – with that
organic selling we know that the market
was in a precarious position in a $-/IV+ manner. This provoked some substantial selling
that was only staved off towards the end of the week.
Now, with more data, we see that VoEx is telling us that the interruption to the already-
interrupted-normal bearish phase of the cycle is mucking things up a bit; VoEx itself is
now behaving quite erratically as the market shifts from downside to upside – something
that even a cursory review of prior similar episodes on $SPY will be return few results.
DLP behavior is less robust than last week, perhaps less confidence in a $+/IV- move for
the week, and the hedging environments are very unsupportive with negative influence
distributions.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                               04/24/2023
MWGSC growth is positive – a bearish finding, but GTM suggests that this may cool off
in the future. So, we’ll keep an eye on that.
Overall, a red week seems most likely ahead with a small acknowledgement of the right-
sided tail risk that is lurking on the indexes.
So, that’s all I have for you guys this week.
I hope to have an update for everyone regarding the dashboard here soon – I am still
working with the devs to iron some things out but it is looking relatively promising.
Happy trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                             04/24/2023
