                                   Weekly Chat 2024-11-25


                                          Main Points



    -   VoEx has migrated back into stability.
    -   Hedging environments present with persistently local purchasing support.
    -   Put-selling was responsive throughout the week to IV changes and remains positive.
    -   Overall, bullish ideations reign supreme.



                                           SUMMARY



          Last week, there was concern that the market was still shaking off a good
          bit of its instability such that there was threat that this process may extend
          the downside outlooks. For now, however, it seems that these fears were
          unrealized and the ever-looming spectre of downside seems to be fading.

          VoEx-daily has rebounded back into Stability, re-joining its VoEx brother
          therein. This is a bullish presentation to the data.

          The hedging environments offer pretty consistent purchasing support in
          all directions, except for $QQQ who presents with slightly less
          immediately-spot-down purchasing support than $SPY. This presents an
          avenue of risk and an opportunity for observation throughout the week.

          Overall, the data do not appear to reflect continued threat of imminent or
          prolonged downside, with the market seemingly well-poised to absorb any
          strong ask. Thus, a return to bullish outlooks commences.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         11/25/2024
                                            DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we left off with more notions of downside due to the data bearishly scattered about
but with the market moving pretty steadily in the opposite direction, we are left with a bit of a
head-scratcher.
We can see the peculiarities with the price-movement in the hedging heatmaps below:




The first-half of the week is clearly characterized by a spot-up, IV-up dynamic that is always a
pleasant surprise (in that its not).
So, this week, let’s continue our investigations regarding the anticipated downside and the
projected duration thereof (if there is any duration left, that is!).
Let’s get started and then have a chat about the dashboard migration next week!
Already started

Starting as usual with VoEx, we see:




Bullish ideations abound! With VoEx maintaining its position within stability and VoEx-daily
rejoining VoEx therein, the interpretation is pretty straightforward: the downside has faded and


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      11/25/2024
upside has appeared. Last week’s concern regarding VoEx-daily returning into the Propagation
Zone seems to have passed. For now, VoEx-daily is pointed away!
Quick and easy – bullish interpretations!
How are the hedging environments poised to respond to this bullish vibes?




Pretty-well! It looks as though the market is prepared to offer a reasonable amount of purchasing
support in all directions – although $SPY does present with its usual flirtatious self, comingling
with nearby selling pressure. Nonetheless, this bodes well when one considers just the data and
bodes quite disastrously if one considers the market’s response recently to the data.
You can choose your own adventure this week!

Nonetheless, this suggests that any upside should be “sped along” while any downside should
have some breaking power applied to it.
Moving onwards and upwards, we encounter our put-selling friends once more:




A curious mix of activity, it would seem that the early-week increase in IV pushed put-selling into
negative territory, only to have the end-of-week relaxation produce a small amount of put-selling
on $SPY and, as is usual, a reasonably more robust response from $QQQ.
This is a nice healthy bullish print – admittedly not with as much fervor as we are always
desperate for, nonetheless, it shows a responsiveness to IV[+] and a willingness to attempt to
capture IV[-] profits; such confidence is surly weighted against our put-selling friends concern for
spot-down, and so, we must conclude that the net balance of considerations favors an
environment with minimal spot-down risk but with maximal IV-down opportunity.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         11/25/2024
Oh but to be a fly on the monitor of one of the put-sellers one day!
Moving onwards evermore, we would encounter the gamma-squeeze data, but it is largely the
same, so I’ll save some digital trees: growth-rate is still positive and moving so, despite the weekly
decrease in gamma squeezes (a total weekly, 10-day, and 20-day decrease of 180 [-18%], 198 [-
20%], and 219, [-22%] respectively). During this very same period, GTM has maintained its slightly-
negative disposition.

Taken together these data do still hint at foundational instability (what with the growth rates
positive and all), but they do not suggest that the instability is extreme or proximal.
So, taken together, the data are pretty bullish! Any downside should be met with healthy,
omnidirectional purchasing support and our put-selling friends seem comfortable, well, sell-puts
in a responsive way.
Some of the threats that exist do stem from $QQQ’s heatmap – too much spot-down may trigger
the gamma-neutrality void into selling pressure – but said threat should minimize as the distance
therefrom maximizes.
Should price dip, and VoEx with it, then I might consider another whip-lashing head-turn back to
near-term bearish but I would still expect a buy-the-dip moment more than a prepare-for-more
moment.
Happy Trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           11/25/2024
Dashboard migration!
The new dashboard is up and runnin’, you can check it out at https://dd.deepdivestocks.com , just
be advised it won’t always be up (as I’ll be tinkering with it over the next week) but starting on
Monday December 2nd, 2024 the new dashboard will be `dd` instead of `data-dash`.
The good news is there’s nothing you need to do! All of the log-in stuff has been handled.


But


The bad news is I’m not quite perfect just yet and a consequence of said failing is that the watch
list is inoperable.
Sorry!
The good news to this good news, however, is that it won’t really be necessary for the watch list
to be operable, as developing the new version of the dashboard is now fully underway!

Give me a few months and then you’ll never even remember the watchlist was broken (I’m also
still working on fixing it, so its possible that happens too).
There are a lot of upgrades I am planning on baking into this upgrade, and I’ll keep you updated
as they come on-line!

If you think of any ideas, comments, or suggestions for the new dashboard, please feel free to
drop them in the Discord channel for suggestions or send me an email!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       11/25/2024
