                                    Weekly Chat 11/06/2023


                                         Main Points


   -   VoEx on $SPY and $QQQ persist within the Propagation Zone,
   -   Hedging Environments offer a Vanna-Stable orientation once more,
   -   DLP behavior is quite positive, demonstrating robust put-selling,
   -   MWGS-data is predominately bearish with positive growth-rates and a positive GTM,
       and
   -   𝑉𝑉 2 is demonstrating continued collapse.
   -   Overall, prudence suggests minimal threat of a forming bull-trap with a bearish
       outlook on most timeframes.



                                           SUMMARY



           $SPY and $QQQ experienced a red week with $SPY exceeding its T+5
           EPR, while $QQQ barely maintained its own boundaries.

           These performances were met with a relatively stagnate VoEx within the
           Propagation Zone; indicative of continued and persistent decline on the
           medium, and longer-term timeframes.

           The Hedging Environments continues to demonstrate vanna’s
           dominance over gamma with two stable-vanna heatmaps. The hedging
           environment seems poised to offer reasonable purchasing support in the
           event of a $-/IV+ week – much like the week prior.

           Put-selling has ramped up in confusing manner. Once more, we are left
           to decide whether to trust our put-selling-friends or to turn towards the
           other data prints that.

           MWGS-data is showing positive growth as well as positive GTM prints,
           indicative of continued gamma squeezes into the market.

           𝑉𝑉 2 is demonstrating continued collapse with data coalescence within the
           Propagation Zone. Until this collapse flattens out or reverses and data
           starts appearing inside of stability (or even the Inhibition Zone), this is a
           robust bearish print.
           Thus, things appear quite bearish on most timeframes for now without
           evidence of a rogue bullish wave forming.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         11/06/2023
                                             DETAILS




Hello everyone! What an exciting week.
Last week, we left off with the idea that downside was a reasonable bet, and that seems to have
been the best outlook as $SPY moved 2.5% to the downside while $QQQ moved -2.62%.
Curiously, however, due to the elevated IVs of late, these moves aren’t particularly greater-than-
EPR. $SPY’s T+5 EPR from last Friday was ±2.14% (realized move: 15% greater than EPR), while
$QQQ’s T+5 EPR was ±2.17% (realized move: 18% less than EPR).
So, whereas the market did move quite a bit, it would seem IV has been keeping relatively good
tabs on the expected moves.

Another fun aspect of this week’s performance was just how well the vanna-stable hedging
environment showed itself, especially on $QQQ:




As IV rose throughout the week, we can see that various effects throughout the market worked
to bring IV back down and into gamma-neutrality.

I wonder what those various effects could be?1
So, for this week, it seems our mission is relatively simple: ensure there are no indications of a
rogue-bullish-wave forming, and otherwise, work on setting the sails towards navigating the
choppy waters ahead.
Chop
As usual, let’s take a quick peek at VoEx:




1
    Spoiler: Probably the DLPs.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       11/06/2023
Above, we see $SPY’s VoEx has stalled within the Propagation Zone – so continue downside
can be expected until that changes.
The same is true for $QQQ:




With both $SPY and $QQQ’s VoEx within the Propagation Zone, it seems reasonable to expect
continued downside; the normal pivot-points against this view (or those that would be
suggestive of a BUPO-event) being either VoEx moving rapidly towards the Inhibition Zone
(suggestive of another round of BUPO, of the bullish type), or, should the market be so lucky, a
gradual migration back towards stability, suggestive of a stabilizing market.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     11/06/2023
But, until then, VoEx in the Propagation Zone is indicative of persistent and continued decline.


How does the hedging environment feel
about this? On the short-term, it seems
its in a bit of a disagreement with
$SPY’s and $QQQ’s.
Both indexes see a vanna-stable
hedging environment – one that we
have grown quite used to in recent-
times.
These environments give a prima facie
bullish outlook given the Influence
Distribution’s peak and general hedging
orientation, but should recent memory
serve as a guide, the left-tail risk present
on the Influence Distributions seems to
be more of a poignant suggestion.
Nonetheless, the hedging environments
do seem poised to offer purchasing
support in the event of any $- moves, so
long as they aren’t accompanied by IV+
(looking at you, 2023-10-26).




Moving onwards slightly towards our put-selling friends, it would appear that some movement
towards capturing profits via IV collapse are underway with reasonably large increases in DLPs
noted on $SPY and $QQQ over the preceding week:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        11/06/2023
                                                                   To quickly harken back to a few
                                                                   weeks ago, yes: it would appear
                                                                   that, indeed, $SPY’s put selling
                                                                   seems to lag behind $QQQ’s
                                                                   somewhat, but in-the-end, it
                                                                   appears both saw quite the
                                                                   increase in put-selling.
                                                                   Personally, I am resisting the
                                                                   urge to speculate on why the
                                                                   puts are being sold (beyond the
                                                                   obvious profit-taking motives) –
                                                                   I’ll leave the speculation to the
                                                                   put sellers themselves.
                                                                   So, with that in mind, it seems
                                                                   fair to say that there is a
                                                                   reasonable expectation for
                                                                   either $+ or IV- (or both) in the
                                                                   near-future as more puts
                                                                   continue to get sold.
                                                                   These data will be watched
                                                                   closely to see if, or when,
                                                                   capitulation occurs – should
                                                                   put selling continue to ramp up,
                                                                   this may be a sign of either folly
                                                                   or robust optimism, whereas
                                                                   should the near-subsquent days
                                                                   see red and a precipitous drop
                                                                   in put-selling, then perhaps
                                                                   capitulation has occurred.

Once this is all over, perhaps there will be time to investigate the put-selling behavior with a bit
more granularity in an effort to either re-validate our trust in our put-selling-friends or, perhaps,
its time to recognize a shift in expertise.

Moving on, we see that MWSGS data is printing bearish prints with a persistently positive
MWGS-growth and positive GTM:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          11/06/2023
Since reaching the low of ~1,000 gamma squeeze in the market around 2023-07-10 (which,
incidentally, corresponded to that strange “undefined” GTM print!), the market has seen a
persistent increase in gamma-squeezes with current GS counts of 2,434!




These data point towards a steadily growing gamma-squeeze presence throughout the market,
and with GTM printing positive values, it seems safe to conclude bearish inclinations from the
MWGS data.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    11/06/2023
Moving right along, we finally reach le2 𝑉𝑉 2:




One might well be inclined to suggest that collapse has definitely occurred, and so the next
question is: “well, now what?”
And, well, frankly, I was hoping you would tell me!
My guess, for what its worth, is that it might be reasonable to expect continued collapse and
eventual gathering of data within the Propagation Zone until this current correction starts to
ease. This easement should be indicated by a steady flattening of the trend-line, and migration
of data out of the Propagation Zone and into stability (see 2020-05-01 area and 2022-11-01
area).
Until then, per 𝑉𝑉 2 it would appear that down is the most reasonable expectation on the medium-,
and longer-term outlooks.
So, all-in-all, the data suggest continued downside on most timeframes. This downside may be
intermittently punctuated via some bull-traps, but these should be easy to spot via VoEx, and
until anything drastic happens there (which doesn’t seem observable currently), I think Prudence
will simply work with the data she has and prepare accordingly.
Happy trading, Justin

2
    French for “le”.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      11/06/2023
