                                   Weekly Chat 2024-11-11


                                          Main Points



    -   VoEx-Daily has spiked back into stability for both $SPY and $QQQ. VoEx remains within
        stability.
    -   Hedging environments are supportive but $QQQ presents with selling pressure located
        spot-down.
    -   Put-selling behavior has reverted back to near-zero.
    -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data show baseline prints as well.
    -   LDPM and LDPS show bullish liquidity and bullish LDPM orientation.
    -   Overall, bullish data prints abound.

                                          SUMMARY




          Last week, there was concern for downside given VoEx-daily’s entrance
          into the Propagation Zone. This did not happen. As a consequence, the
          data seem to have erased any evidence of bearish outlooks:

          VoEx-daily has spiked into Stability; although there is risk for a VoEx-Spike
          response (in conjunction with mean-reversion), given VoEx’s placement
          within Stability, this lowers the risk thereof, resulting in a net bullish
          outlook.

          The hedging environments offer no resistance to continued appreciation;
          $QQQ’s environment does present with the introduction of spot-down
          selling pressure, adding a slight risk for “exaggerated” downside, should
          mean-reversion creep into the markets. However, given the data above,
          this is contextualized as a potential opportunity to average down.

          Overall, the data seem quite bullish and so too then do the outlooks!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        11/11/2024
                                              DETAILS




11-11 make a wish!
Ha-ha just-joking, after last week, we can’t even afford to wish.
After a painful week, and a healthy reminder of the magnitude of the market’s alacrity, $SPY ended
up 4.75% while $QQQ moved 5.48%! Those are some big numbers, so let’s bust out the math:
SPY’s EPR from last week was 2.12% and $QQQ’s was 2.65%. This means the market moved
2.24x more than was expected! We can visualize this movement below:




With a casual move in the $+, IV- direction, we can see both indexes moved (perhaps for the first
time ever, if memory serves) to the upper limits of the heatmap (usually it’s the lower limits or far
off to the right).
These moves, do, I believe, constitute a worthwhile story to send home – so, in that, at least, there
was some truth.
This week, the investigation is relatively straight forward: did the market just snap to a new beat
or should we consider this an interlude to the bearing data we had been tracking? Or should we
worry about a mean reversion shaking things about? Let’s take a look and find out.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          11/11/2024
If you look longer than 3 seconds you’re staring at it.
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see that perhaps our answer is quite straightforward:




VoEx-daily has violently moved into Stability while VoEx itself rests therein as well – this suggests
low probability of a “VoEx Spike”, and simply rapid move back into bullish outlooks. Nonetheless,
a low threat for a VoEx Spike but worth observation over the next week or so (i.e.: look at VoEx
just before 2024-09-01).
So, per VoEx, the anticipated downside has all-but vanished, leaving in its stead a healthy dose of
bullish enthusiasm.
This incurs a medium-, and long-term bullish outlook, but perhaps before putting our hat on the
near-term post as well, let’s take a quick look that there isn’t any evidence for a nasty mean-
reversion to occur (seeing as the market moved 2x and all).
Thus, let’s take a peek at the hedging environments to see how they are poised.




Both seem reasonably supportive for continued bullish outlooks, and their influence distributions
share a positive view for the week ahead as well. It should be noted that $QQQ does present with
a tad bit more risk given its close proximity to spot-down selling-pressure, suggesting that any
~casual~ mean-reversion might lead to a healthy dip-to-buy.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          11/11/2024
Moving onwards, we can confer with our put-selling friends to see what they hold in-store for the
weeks ahead1.




Perhaps much like us, they are in a bit of a concussive period – as they show no eagerness to
rejoin the party just yet. Perhaps the balance of IV and potential downside does not merit the
risks, currently.

Moving onwards to the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data [not shown] we see that the data has
essentially gone back to “baseline” as well – the growth rate is still slightly climbing, but for now,
GTM is starting to print positive values, and the nominal amounts of gamma squeezes is low
(800ish).
Lastly, we see with LDPM and LDPS that ES (aggressive setting) has reverted back to bullish, and,
we don’t see any particular evidence of an eager ask rising drastically to meet this appreciating
price:




So, in other words, thoughts are moving towards a rebounding bullish outlook with the hesitance
of a newborn fawn.
Unsteady, uncomfortable, and doesn’t feel quite right, but, bullish data are bullish.


1
 I’m taking a humblizing solace in connecting with the put-sellers over the past two weeks – they were human two
weeks ago and so too did we err last week.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                    11/11/2024
And so, with fresh lessoned learned; loudly looming over ourselves offering objective opines, let’s
let learning-lessons leap forward: foremost, we witnessed wild waffs while perceiving, principally,
projections pertaining to bearish behaviors but, by-and-large, that just didn’t happen – so the
lesson is: well, there is no real lesson. Sometimes that’s just how the ball bounces.
Perhaps some lessons left looming but those will come with more time and inspection.
Til then!
Oh -
Quick note!
I am mostly off of X for now! So, all updates will be going back to the Discord and Email.
With LDPM, LDPS completed and with LTA in the beta stage, DDS is now shifting focus back to
the Dashboard! I hopefully will have an update in the next week or two regarding that.
Also – DDS is full again!


Happy Trading -


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        11/11/2024
