                                 Weekly Chat 2025-01-13


                                      Main Points



    -   VoEx continues its stay within the Propagation Zone, working to extend and
        reїnforce downside prudency.
    -   Gamma-hedging environments are slightly more supportive for $QQQ, showing
        a wedge of purchasing support in the $− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + direction; $SPY sees local and
        diffuse selling pressure.
    -   Put-selling is mixed; $QQQ’s put-sellers have ceased while $SPY’s have
        remained elevated.
    -   MWGS show an erecting GTM as long gamma is being detected moving towards
        the market along with the positive growth rate and large w-o-w increase in GS
        counts.
    -   LDPS/M demonstrate downside targets of ~5% and 15% on the Weekly intervals.



                                       SUMMARY


          The data are officially bearish and moves are in full-swing.

          VoEx has decidedly moved into the Propagation Zone, $SPY and
          $QQQ have developed gamma squeezes, gamma squeezes have
          increased and put-selling has ceased; taken together this paints a
          bearish and unstable landscape.

          The only glimpse of bullish ideations are found in $QQQ’s relatively
          robust hedging environment and a small showing of a positive GTM;
          if these data have sufficient strength to withstand the
          aforementioned bearish data, time will tell.

          For now, prudency suggests bracing for the downside with LDPM
          showing downside targets to monitor when the time comes.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                               01/13/2025
                                         DETAILS




Hello every-body!
Last week, we left off with some ranting and ravings that suggested a bull-trap was neigh,
and neigh it was! As the market stirred to life in the early-part of the week (namely,
Monday), it was simultaneously preparing to un-do that. We can witness the duality and
futility of man below:




Conjoined movement towards gamma neutrality in the [$−, 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +] manner, leading $SPY
away from selling pressure and $QQQ away from purchasing support.
In terms of movements, this week saw $SPY moving -1.94% while $QQQ moved -2.20%.
Since the week was a short week, let’s normalize these values against the Expected Price
Range (EPR) to see how much the indexes moved with respect to the market’s
expectations.
$SPY’s T+4 EPR from last Friday (2025-01-03) was ±1.40% while $QQQ’s T+4 EPR was
±1.90%. This gives us respective, normalized movements of 32% and 15%; not too
surprising that $SPY should move ~2x that of $QQQ, given its inundation with selling
pressure. Nonetheless, we can see that these moves were relatively well-housed within
the week’s EPR. (Perhaps worth noting for later that IV rose 20% over the course of the
week for $SPY and only 15% for $QQQ!).
Now don’t go telling anyone but - technically - that was the start of the analysis for the
data for next week (since now we can minimize the risk of ~mean-reversion~ as price
was within EPR) which means we didn’t, as usual, start with VoEx.
But if you don’t tell, I won’t!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                01/13/2025
I obviously already know and I’m not mad, just disappointed.
In pretending that sanctity is still extant 1, let’s get started with VoEx!




No minced words noted from VoEx! VoEx is within the Propagation Zone (and deepening),
and VoEx-daily is also, as it were, in the Propagation Zone (and deepening). This gives
future, bearish outlooks of the respectable variety and magnitude.
From last month (Weekly Chat 2024-12-06), a downside target of ~$5,900 for #ES was
placed, and with our recent arrival thereupon and with VoEx deepening within the
Propagation Zone, it would seem that an extension of our outlooks is required; something
to visit below.
For now, the outlook remains bearish, on the near-term and longer-term outlooks.
Let’s see what else we can discern in the gamma hedging environments.




The same as last week! Except, this time, it looks like $QQQ has some reasonable
purchasing support to prop it up in the event of a [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +] moves in the week ahead –




1
 If I was reading this out loud to a group of people this is where I would pause slightly and look towards you for
moving ahead of VoEx before starting up again.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                     01/13/2025
well, that is unless spot moves down in a non-1-to-1 manner (in this case, if spot moves
down more than IV moves up), then $QQQ will surely fall into selling pressure.
Also! Both $SPY and $QQQ are in gamma squeezes!
It should be noted that both hedging environments present with a shared trajectory
towards gamma neutrality in the 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − manner, but this will bring both through selling
pressure and so it feels like a difficult ask 2.
And so, one finds it difficult to suggest the hedging environments are supportive for any
movement except for spot-down, especially without the threat of mean-reversion
hovering around that purchasing support on $QQQ.
Remember earlier when it was mentioned that the hedging environments had a shared
trajectory towards gamma neutrality?
                                              “
     It should be noted that both hedging environments present with a shared trajectory
                       towards gamma neutrality in the 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − manner …
                                 “ – Weekly Chat 2025-01-13


Well, let’s check out our put-selling friends who, I imagine, would be particularly interested
in preparing for a 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −-week, should they share our trajectories.




Not quite! At least for $QQQ. Perhaps the increase in $SPY’s put-selling is an effort to
manifesting profitability (since they seem to have sold into an IV hike).
It would seem that $QQQ’s put-selling has reversed while $SPY’s is ascending. Poor $SPY
put-sellers; perhaps they are banking on the 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − eventualities, but, amongst ourselves,


2
    Pun not intended … maybe.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    01/13/2025
the put-sellers on $QQQ have been known to be the all-stars as compared to $SPY; and
its not too uncommon to see them out-perform $SPY put-sellers.
And so, the net result is: likely preparation for non-profitability in the event of $+, 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − but
for now $SPY remains hopeful (or desperate?).
Moving onwards, we came across the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data!
                                                                      Things are heating              up    in
                                                                      gamma-squeeze land!
                                                                      A 17% increase in GS count
                                                                      week-over-week, ~20% two-
                                                                      week-over-two-week and about
                                                                      the same for the month-over-
                                                                      month.
                                                                      We can see to the left here that
                                                                      we have breached the 1,500
                                                                      gamma squeeze mark, a count
                                                                      that has seen historical work as
                                                                      a “ceiling” of sorts 3.
                                                                      GTM is showing movement
                                                                      towards long gamma flows,
                                                                      suggesting, well, long gamma
                                                                      flow into the market, and by
                                                                      extension and consequence, a
                                                                      reduction in gamma-squeeze
                                                                      counts and instability.




But – before I put too much stock into
this newfound spring of long gamma, I
may remember that the magnitude of
gamma will tend to increase as an option
moves from ITM to OTM and a good bit
of recent price movement has likely
caused a good number of shifts from

3
 By historical I mean 3 times since 2024 so more “by recent events” or “its been said that” than “by historical
precedence”. We can see this if we zoom out some (bottom of this page)


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                   01/13/2025
ITM ⟷ OTM. Namely, there should be a good number of ITM calls that moved OTM and
OTM puts that moved ITM.
Although this makes reasonable sense, we can double check the data to make sure this
assumption isn’t too far off. If we look at the top 100 equities (by volume) for the past 50
days and look at how their 5,252788,916 options are behaving, we can see that the most
prominent changes are OTM Puts → ITM :




With the data above showing a relatively
sharp increase in ITM put options (and a
relatively appreciable decrease in calls),
this suggests that a large majority of the
gamma provided by the market’s puts
likely nudged up a bit but since, as the
market has fallen, and so too has the
magnitude of the gamma said puts
provide (namely the long kind).
This suggests that the magnitude of the
gamma provided market’s Dealer Short
Puts (which is short gamma) has been
decreasing in magnitude (becoming close to 0,
in math speak this is (Δ|𝛾𝛾| < 0 → 0−). This shrinking of short gamma coincides with the
growing of long gamma vis-à-vis the Dealer Long Calls (as they move from ITM to OTM).
If we want to really ensure and we have access to our handy-dandy net-directinalized
gamma, then we can check our hypothecations are correct (namely that those calls
should be predominately dealer long and the puts dealer short), we can look at the
normalized, net, aggregate gamma for these same 50 equities. We should see growth of


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  01/13/2025
long gamma gamma as the market appreciates and calls start migrating towards being
ITM, and then a reversal as, well, the reversal occurred. Is that what we see?




Yup! Here, we can see that net gamma rose throughout the market significantly (reaching
+17,000,000 on $SPY on 2024-12-04!) which corresponds nicely to the steady growth in
the ITM Dealer Long calls and OTM Dealer Short Puts, only to see this “ITM-ness” work
against the market as the price dipped slightly and then a lot!
For instance, this loss of long-gamma by way of the options moving ITM contributed to
the net gamma on $SPY falling to around -6,000,000 by 2024-12-19 (a 135% loss). 4
All this to say, the long gamma flowing towards the market is likely the result of an
artificial reduction in the magnitude of gamma brought on by the movement of OTM DSPs
ITM, ITM DLCs moving OTM, and the combined efforts of $+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −. As such, it doesn’t seem
reasonable to put too much stake on GTM’s recent bullish moves; I would like to see how
these data change as price and IV start to settle and the effects of the new flows aren’t
quite as eclipsed by the market’s tugs and pulls.
Nonetheless, growth is positive, gamma squeezes are numerous in count, and so the
outlook is bearish with a sprinkle of potential signs of long gamma starting to flow back
towards the market.
At the start of the month, there was a downside target acquired by LDPM of ~$5,900:


                                             “




4
    If you want to take this

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                 01/13/2025
 current conditions suggest anything limited to ~$5,900 on $ES (the current LDPM-89, -
               144 floor) will present a decent average down opportunity.
    Extension beyond $5,900 or if VoEx indicates will likely cause another review of
         medium-term condition but otherwise, dip-then-rip; as the kids say.
                                 “ – Weeky Chat 2024-12-09
And now that $ES has settled at $5,866.25 for the week-end, it seems that its time to re-
examine conditions for the next floor. Since last time, the $5,900 benchmark represented
the daily-LDPM “floor”, let’s not mince pie and start right at the weekly interval:




Quite the showing! LDPS has officially become bearish on the weekly interval, an event
that hasn’t occurred since last September (to little affair, it seems). This time, however,
the eager bid is significantly more eager (much higher above spot), and we are already
testing the first floor! (LDPM-5 [neon-blue]) at $5,750-ish. This sets the next downside
target at $5,500-$5,300-ish, and should things deteriorate from there, a likely resting place
of $5,000 at LDPM-7 (orange line).
So, bearish data around. Minimal evidence for anticipation of $+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − from $SPY put-
sellers – not the most historically accurate put-sellers around but it is a data point
nonetheless. The rest of the data suggest downside: VoEx is well within the P.Z., put-
selling on $QQQ has ceased and reversed; hedging environments are mixed and
precarious; gamma-dynamics suggests the number of ITM Dealer Short puts are the main
factor being the seeping long gamma in the market rather than the migration towards
new positions.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   01/13/2025
Prudency says brace for volatility and downside!


Happy Trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                     01/13/2025
