                                     Weekly Chat 2025-11-03


                                            Main Points



       -   VoEx-daily continues its spike; VoEx-proper for $SPY has left the P.Z.
       -   Gamma-hedging heatmaps show a ceiling of selling pressure; delta hedging
           heatmaps show robust purchasing support spot-down.
       -   Gamma-squeeze counts have increased with the predictive data forecasting
           continued growth.
       -   LS/LT investigation shows near-term bearish liquidity testing supports with higher-
           timeframe data allowant of downside before finding support.
       -   Overall, turbulence with downside and bounce expected for week ahead.

                                             SUMMARY


           Last week was a net positive week both for spot and spirits as the market largely
           followed our expectations. The data following set the expectation of downside to
           test support followed by a potential bounce.

           VoEx-daily seems to be completing its spike, with VoEx-daily moving decidedly
           southwards for both $SPY and $QQQ. VoEx-proper, however, has exited the P.Z.
           for $SPY, suggesting a bit of an awkward pause may be brewing; $QQQ’s VoEx
           has remained within the P.Z., suggestive that this outlook is one-sided.

           Gamma-hedging shows predominately a ceiling of selling-pressure with delta
           hedging echoing said outlook but providing evidence of delta-hedging of equal
           magnitude in the $− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + direction.

           Gamma-squeeze data showcase increased growth and increased (albeit slightly)
           expectations of growth’s growth.

           LS/LT data showcase near-term bearish liquidity testing supports on the 90-, and
           144-minute charts with a ~1.5% downside liquidity vacuum for both the 987-
           minute and week.

           Overall, these data paint a picture of near-term turbulence, downside, and likely
           bounce off of supports.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                  2025-11-03 to 2025-11-07
                                                DETAILS




Hello every-body!
Some good news to start the weekly chat: life is being breathed back into Deep Dive Stocks!
James has helped immensely refocus DDS and bring in new subscribers and this trend seems to
only be increasing!
For now, it may appear as though all my focus is spent on the TradingView side of things – and
well – admittedly, that is true but only because you lot are expensive and goals loftier; with that,
you have my word, that the Premium members, you, dear reader, are my utmost concern and
everything DDS engages with is in pursuit of acquiring sufficient resources and know-how to bring
all of the tools long-promised and long-over due your way.
I am happy to say that things appear to be back on track and moving quite earnestly in that
direction.
Now, speaking of long-overdue, let’s get the weekly chat started!
Last week, we had loftier ideals ourselves of a market that was looking spikey, and by spikey we
of course mean VoEx-daily spikey: unstable upside. To this end, $SPY moved 0.71% while $QQQ
moved 1.94%! Quite the difference but both positive so we’ll take the W.

We can visualize these movements in the heatmaps below:




Surprisingly, whereas $QQQ had more prominent selling pressure, it seems $SPY was more
dependent on its purchasing support, and thus, experienced an end-of-week dip towards said
purchasing support whereas $QQQ digested through continued selling pressure.
In continuing our journey from last week, we noted that any moments of price-stagnation or price
decline is likely to be met with an increase in gamma squeeze counts – and we should definitely
check on that.
But in the mean time, I just want to express:


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-11-03 to 2025-11-07
                I still don’t like this updated Gamma Heatmap graphing modality!

For the life of me I can’t get it to work as well as before.
Quick recap:

   1) There was the original heatmap algorithm, then
   2) Came the dashboard and the dashboard required the heatmap algorithm to be re-worked,
      during which time there was the original heatmap included in the reports and the updated
      heatmap on the dashboard.
   3) This, as we all know was okay , but I miss the old maps.
The issue isn’t the back-end calculations, although they have undergone some iterative
~improvements~ but rather their display – the manner the data is organized and the relative
strength values applied is different between the two graphing packages which, at times, can
cause quite the apparent difference!
So, for now, I’ll be including the Heatmap dashboards and the old `Delta Hedging` heatmaps from
the older algorithm and I think I will renew some interest in trying to get these heatmaps back.
Moving on, let’s check on VoEx!
Proper start begins here




Here we see VoEx-daily indeed spiked and it looks to be en route to the P.Z., justifying our prior
suspicions (and fueling even more) while VoEx-proper remains south of the Inhibition Zone – but
not in the same zones! On $SPY VoEx has creeped back into stability – a daring act.

This muddies the waters somewhat in terms of interpretation: whereas if VoEx had stayed within
the Propagation Zone, then expected VoEx-daily Spike like behavior would be expected (read:
daily continues spiking back down and so too comes price), with VoEx having exited the P.Z. it
begs of some price stagnation. $QQQ, on the other hand, has no such qualms and has remained
within the P.Z. – a sign of continued downside expectations.
So overall, from VoEx, we find: continued indications of downside but a mixed environment when
looking for timing: $SPY suggests a pause whereas $QQQ suggests all is according to plan.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of             2025-11-03 to 2025-11-07
Moving onwards to the Gamma hedging heatmaps, we find:




To this we see $SPY has quite the hurdle in its $+ inclinations. Both $SPY and $QQQ present with
spot-up selling pressure and a faint, diffuse field of purchasing support below: more of a resistant
environment for personal and/or professional growth than a fostering one.
Pivoting slightly to the ~delta hedging1~ heatmaps, we find:




Supportive environments!
In case memory is foggy or you, dear reader, are just encountering these heatmaps for the first
time, it is often that the price will move until “significant” hedging kicks in – this `significant`
hedging is denoted via the numbers.
To this end, we see that there is a reasonable breadth of movement of the market in the $+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −
manner until about $700 for $SPY and $650 for $QQQ, and in the same vein, purchasing support
is set to `significantly` kick in around $670 for $SPY and $610 for $QQQ.
Overall, these data paint a somewhat supportive environment but definitely paint an inhibitive
environment as both delta and gamma show up-stream selling pressure.


1
  Why not always use delta heatmaps? In short: they are much more fickly than gamma hedging heatmaps and are
subject to greater swings in intra-day changes. Notwithstanding, they are great tools and perhaps we’ve been
ignoring them for too long!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat               for the week of                  2025-11-03 to 2025-11-07
Moving onwards but staying in the same park, one might remember the idea that gamma
squeezes, should the market stagnate or even dip some, should be monitored for a quick
“explosion” in count. The anticipation of the explosion was predicated on the idea that the gamma
squeeze’s reduction herhitherto last week was more a mechanical product of spot movement
rather than a true change in options configurations.
Well, the market did stagnate some in some areas, so let’s check on the market-wide gamma
squeeze data:




A modest increase for a modestly flat week (thinking mostly of $SPY here); an 18% increase in
week-over-week GS counts is nothing too shabby – especially if one rejects my idea of a market-
flat-week in favor of $QQQ’s perspective (a decisively up week!). Such latter thinking would paint
a picture of reasonable performance with an increase in gamma squeeze risk: a precarious and
unusual combo.
In moving towards the predictive gamma squeeze data, we can ask ourselves one of many
questions but perhaps the most poignant: did these data change?



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-11-03 to 2025-11-07
To this end we find the answer is: kinda!

Whereas last week it was noted that PGC (purple line; Predictive Growth Curve [~acceleration])
had moved back negative (meaning things were slowing down) the PCC (orange line; Predictive
Count Curve [~velocity]) was easing is way evernorthward and so the overall picture was “velocity
is becoming positive but it may do so at a slower rate than previously expected”.
The outlook now more definitive: the PCC has indeed slowly climbed into positive territory, and
so the outlook for GS counts in the future is: more than today. Conjunctively, we find the growth
curve has back into positive territory as well, telling us that the growth in the future-counts will
grow faster than they currently going to be in the future. Something along those lines.
In essence: the predictive data is once again positing towards a positive-gamma-squeeze-growth
environment.
Moving onwards with a collective sense of “downside is still expected on the ~monthly timeframe
but what about next week”, we encounter the LS/LT data for ES futures:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of             2025-11-03 to 2025-11-07
The quick-and-dirty answer to the general zeitgeist des WeeklyChats is: downside – if the
supports fail (which they are likely to do given LS!).
The 90-minute (top-left) finds bearish liquidity testing L6&7 supports: highly suggestive of
continued downside unless liquidity turns bullish.
The 144-mintue (top-right) finds also bearish liquidity testing L6&7 supports: once again highly
suggestive of continued downside unless, you guess it, liquidity turns bullish.
The 987-minute (bottom-left) has more positive regards for the future, with bullish liquidity and a
touch of profit-taking poking through. This profit-taking in conjunction with the lower-timeframe
bearish pressure suggests testing L5 for support is in the works, currently located at $6,776-ish,
about 1.4% down.
The same largely goes for the 1-Week view (bottom-right) as well: bullish liquidity suffering some
profit-taking (only L2 this time though) which threatens to force the market to test supports about
1.5% down.
So overall, it appears near-term downside is reasonably expected and so to answer our previous
inquires regarding near-term price action.

Thusly and overally, the data paint a picture of unease and turbulence with resolution mounting
towards the downside: the week ahead is likely defined by testing those supports and being
awkward about it.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of                2025-11-03 to 2025-11-07
This is also tangentially supported by a quick glance at $SPY on the 987-minute, which shows
evidence of profit-taking kicking in with support at L7: at $656!




The number 656, as you may recall, has been mentioned before: namely, and most relevantly for
our discussions, with regards to where $SPY would find its purchasing support from the gamma
hedging heatmaps! Admittedly, it was 650 - but we can’t begrudge a few measly dollars of
discrepancy2.
Overall, this suggests a rocky week with ever-increasing fertile grounds for a renewed downside
but the “trigger” doesn’t seem to have been pulled just yet: VoEx has creeped back into stability
on $SPY and there is a reasonable amount of support (from LTs) and purchasing support (from
hedging) to starve-off any would-be 02/2020’s lurking around the corner (for now).
Thus, prudency suggests bracing for a turbulent, downtrodden week.

Happy Trading,


Justin




2
    This was also, coincidentally, the point I tried to make after my first day as a cashier at Chik-Fil-A.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                        for the week of                       2025-11-03 to 2025-11-07
