                                  Weekly Chat 03/18/2024


                                         Main Points


    -   VoEx on $SPY and $QQQ have continued their Divergence with $QQQ’s VoEx-trend
        having left stability. Both $SPY and $QQQ’s VoEx-dailies are (mostly) in the P.Z.
    -   Hedging environments between $SPY and $QQQ are quite distinct with respect to their
        gamma neutrality; both are in a vanna-stable orientation.
    -   DLP behavior remains at zero.
    -   GTM has printed its first negative print since starting its large, positive complex
        several months ago.
    -   VoEx Variance suggests that things are in a cooling off period within stability.
    -   Overall, high expectations for near-term downside.

                                         SUMMARY



          VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ have progressed with their Divergence plans
          with $QQQ’s VoEx-trend having already left the Inhibition Zone. This is a
          bearish print for both.

          The hedging environments are in a vanna-stable orientation for both $SPY
          and $QQQ. $SPY has a sparsely distributed, but abundant gamma neutral
          zone. On pontification regarding the possible consequence of this
          orientation, and with respect to the anticipation of downside, there is
          concern about the creation of an environment wherein the gamma neutral
          zone can be expected to quickly be replaced via new options flows at the
          start of the week. This places additional burden on $QQQ’s available
          purchasing support, should the market find itself in need of said support
          in the upcoming week.

          DLP behavior is still flat and zero; no anticipations for profitability via
          $+/IV- in the week ahead. MWGS data is largely the same except for GTM-
          5’s most recent, negative print. Should this continue, it brings with it
          bearish tidings and increasing gamma squeeze counts.

          VoEx variance view neo-VoEx is showing a market in the process of
          “cooling-off” from its recent excursion. This suggests that, for now, any
          downside experienced should be “short lived”.

          Bearish expectations abound.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      03/18/2024
                                             DETAILS




Hello everybody!
Last week, we left off with neutral-to-bearish inclinations, and it would seem this modestly
protective stance served its purpose quite well throughout the week as $SPY’s net movement
was near-zero (-0.37%), and a negative move for $QQQ of -1.16%.
This week, let’s see if we can uncover data to either confirm that the “cooling off” period has, in
fact, begun, or, if this is just another small wave in a sea of bearish-inclinations.
Let’s get started!
Looking at the week’s progress through the lens of the hedging environments, a curious sight
emerges. The first oddity is $SPY’s IV on 2024-03-11 – we can see it goes off of the map some
                                                      with a casual print of 0.70 (a 488%
                                                      increase), followed by a sudden drop
                                                      back towards where things were,
                                                      followed by an even stranger fall directly
                                                      into purchasing support.




                                                          Meanwhile, we see $QQQ’s initial rise
                                                          throughout the week brought it into
                                                          light    selling      pressure.      The
                                                          consequence of this re-union seems to
                                                          have been rather robust: rejection back
                                                          to gamma neutrality thereafter, $QQQ
                                                          slid down for the later-half of the week.
                                                          Curious that the maintaining of
                                                          gamma-neutral also effectively cut
                                                          $QQQ off from any reasonable
                                                          purchasing support, or perhaps, the
                                                          purchasing support helped keep things
                                                          in gamma neutrality (it is worth nothing
that the purchasing support just below the 12th, 13th, and 14th rests at ~$435, which was the
relative bottom of the week until Friday’s massive-red-candle-open pushed the price below!).


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        03/18/2024
This behavior is quite strange and, arguably, it is also more dynamic than we usually witness
within the hedging environments, especially of late with the persistent bull run.
The net-effect of all of this sound and furry is a VoEx-trend on $SPY and $QQQ that have officially
left the Inhibition Zone!




(Okay – almost left, for $SPY. But that’s less fun to say).

This behavior has been anticipated for quite a while, as both $SPY and $QQQ have been teasing
with several bouts of VoEx Divergence in the last few months. In fact, it is this, uh, fact that might
have you pausing and going “Uhm – Didn’t this happen before (especially with $QQQ), and we
rebounded back into BUPO (of the Bullish Variety)?
And the answer is: yes! Yes, we did. The last time VoEx-daily peeked its head into the Propagation
Zone on $QQQ was 01-31-20241. But a quick look at VoEx between then and now suggests that
not all is the same:




1
    The moment is talked about in Weekly Chat 2024-01-29.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           03/18/2024
The last time, as compared to the current episode of VoEx-daily spiking into the Propagation Zone
on $QQQ, the spike was accompanied by a pretty robust and established BUPO (of the Bullish
Variety), whereas the current spike into the Propagation Zone is accompanied by a just-post-
VoEx-Divergence VoEx.
The difference? Well, last time this happened, the end-result was a bullish interpretation:
                                                 “
VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ have remained in a persistently elevated state within the Inhibition Zone,
which qualifies them both for Bullish-until-proven-otherwise (BUPO). This stance will be
maintained until VoEx exits the Inhibition Zone.
                                                 “
This time, however, it seems I cannot make such a statement as VoEx[-trend] has, in fact, left the
inhibition Zone.
This places the interpretation in a bearish majority-owned state: the slow grind of VoEx
Divergence these past two months have paved the way for this configuration, and there’s minimal
data to suggest this trend is set to be disrupted.
Moving from the VoExes to the Hedges, we are confronted with a relatively unique environment
for $SPY in particular.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         03/18/2024
A vanna-stable orientation for $QQQ (right), with local and reasonable purchasing support, along
with a relatively pronounced left-tail per the influence distribution.
$SPY, on the other hand, seems to have a bit of a … hole. It would seem the loss of ~5 million
options on Friday put $SPY’s hedging environment into a bit of a tussle. How the dealers will
respond to this is uncertain, but it does suggest a curious path forward:
   1- There may be an increase in “spot-hedging” as new positions will undoubtedly quickly
      disrupt this wider-than-normal gamma neutrality, which will provoke more active hedging
      via underlying.
   2- A market in downturn would provide onus for retail to start intaking long puts.
   3- In combination, should the market experience a downturn and retail begins opening short-
      delta positions, this will place long-delta in the hands of the options dealers who, as
      suggested above, will be more prone and apt to “actively” hedge positions. The
      consequence is the influx of additional selling pressure (due to the long-delta being taken
      by the options dealers) that is more “active” .

So – in other words, $SPY seems to have a relatively mis-matched risk-balance environment;
despite the increased risk of downside, there seems to be little by-way of reward, just an empty,
bleak, gamma neutral environment.
Conversely, it would seem that $QQQ is reasonably protected against what VoEx is suggesting is
inbound; whether or not it is sufficient to starve-off the magnitude of what VoEx suggests is
coming is another story.
$SPY, on the other hand, is a bit of a wild-card, and I will eagerly look at its hedging environment
after Monday’s close to see how things are shaping up.
Now that the hedging environments are out of the way, let’s see what our put-selling friends are
up to:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         03/18/2024
It would seem that our DLP friends are up to: a whole bunch of nothing! Except perhaps some
other trade that doesn’t involve a $+/IV- path towards profitability.

Moving on from DLPs to the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data, we see: much the same. Despite
the neutral-to-red week, gamma squeeze counts decreased, with the counts now ~10% lower than
the 5-day average (949 vs. 1,100).

DLPs offer a slight change-of-pace for the MWGS data with an ever-so-tiny negative GTM print.




This negative GTM print is occurring after about 2 months of steady GTM-EMA decline – perhaps
this means we will finally get to see some action in the GTM data. This is, by-and-large, a
tentatively bearish print. In the coming days, should the other “higher-order” GTMs also make their
way into negative territory, then it would become reasonable for me to expect a future of robust
gamma squeeze growth, and, consequently, market downturn.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        03/18/2024
Now, let’s look at the neo-VoExes to see if they offer any congruent or discordant insights.




$SPY’s neo-VoEx also shows a VoEx-daily extending into the Propagation Zone, and a VoEx that
is quickly heading out of stability.

These data seem congruent with the above.
The story is more progressed with $QQQ, where we see (below) that VoEx-daily, much like $SPY,
has reached into the Propagation Zone, but unlike $SPY, $QQQ’s VoEx has already left stability:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        03/18/2024
This is, of course, resoundingly bearish.
Thus, it would seem that for $SPY and $QQQ, downside is expected per neo-VoEx, as it is
suggested above.
While we are in neo-VoEx-land, let’s check out some interesting single-tickers. First up: $NVDA




Much the same with $QQQ and $SPY - VoEx-daily within the Propagation Zone and a VoEx that
is falling quite rapidly out of stability.
Lastly, let’s take a peek at $TSLA:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       03/18/2024
It would seem the recent price-appreciation during 2024-02 was provoking a lot of instability, and
failed to ignite a lasting bullish run (since VoEx wasn’t able to “make” it out of the P.Z.).
Subsequently, and currently, both VoExes have resumed their intent towards deepening their
relationship with the Propagation Zone, a finding that is severely bearish.
Not the most re-assuring of VoEx prints (for the bulls at least)!
Speaking of VoEx prints, let’s check out VoEx Variance but with the neo-VoEx instead of traditional
VoEx!

Quick reminder about VoEx Variance: it attempts to look at two aspects of thousands of VoEx
throughout the market (grouped by their respective ETFs):
   1) The average location of all of the VoExes within a given ETF, and
   2) The “energy state” of the respective ETF’s constituent VoExes.

Each dot on the graph is the daily measurement. It can be located in one of the three zones. In
this version of the graph, with the new VoEx, there are these three zones, one in each of the panels:
   1) Overheating [top panel],
   2) Stability [Middle], and
   3) Propagation Zone [Bottom]
Within each of the three zones, the dot is placed based on the relative energy state of the ETF’s
VoExes, as measured by the overall variance of the VoExes for each ETF.
So, a dot that is in the middle panel, and in the middle portion (say 0 or so), tells us:
   1) The average VoEx within this ETF is in a “Overheating” state, and
2) Within the ETF, everything is “in agreement” since VoExes are clustered with low variance.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                              03/18/2024
The takeaway? Bullish performance that is shared throughout the ETF, and since VoExes are
experiencing “minimal” excitability, this bullish performance can be expected to persist (i.e.: dips
can be bought with confidence for long-term value)

Now that we got the words out of the way, let’s take a look at the graph:




   A cool feature of these data is we can see how waves move throughout the market (indicated
   above with the boxes).
   Another cool feature is that it appears there’s no data yet within the Propagation Zone! It
   seems the early part of the most recent rally was indicated via VoEx Variance jumping into
   the “Over-heat” zone around the start of 2023-12, and left around 2024-02. During this time,
   $SPY moved 6.99%. Afterwards, VoExes moved back towards Stability (and “calmed down”
   since things moved towards 0 within stability). After this (until currently), $SPY has moved
   4.22%! This is almost ~50% change in performance (based on VoEx’s location).
   The current interpretation is that – intriguingly – the market is in a stable and calm state. For
   now, there are no data presenting within the Propagation Zone. Until that happens, VoEx
   Variance is printing bullish inclinations! We shall keep an eye on this in the next week or so.
The takeaway of this is: near term downside that shows signs of being relatively isolated for now.
Until data starts to appear in the Propagation Zone, it suggests that the market, by-and-large, is

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         03/18/2024
well suited to “handle” and near-term downside. Should data start to appear in the P.Z. during the
anticipated near-term downside, then this time-horizon will have to be re-evaluated.
So, overall, the data are bearish.
VoEx and neo-VoEx are indicating the start of a persistent decline in market performance. GTM
has printed the first negative print, suggesting that short gamma is starting to trickle back into
the market, and with it, gamma squeezes. Along with these data, it seems our put-selling-friends’
data also does not appear to show any hopes for profitability via $+/IV-; a bold statement.
In addition, or maybe in spite of, this are the hedging environments. On $SPY we see a wide,
unequal gamma neutrality that offers no push or pull, but only a concerning path; and on $QQQ, a
sea of consistent purchasing support in the $-/IV+ quadrants.
VoEx Variance is suggesting that overheating has occurred but it seems that recent times have
seen a reasonable amount of cooling off. Suggesting that perhaps there is an upper-limit to the
current expectations for downside.
Overall, bearish and expecting to stay so for a second.


Happy Trading,



Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       03/18/2024
