                                    Weekly Chat 2025-01-20


                                            Main Points



    -   VoEx persists within the Propagation Zone, while VoEx-daily moves rapidly towards stability for
        both $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   Hedging environments showcase diffuse purchasing support with a thin ridge spot-down made
        thereof separating $SPY and $QQQ from selling pressure.
    -   Put-selling on $SPY is decreasing but remains elevated, $QQQ put-sellers are continuing to
        cease activities.
    -   Market-wide gamma squeeze data show a rapid reduction in growth rates, counts with a growing
        GTM.
    -   Additional VoEx studies suggest the market is currently in a “window” of bullish outlooks.
    -   LDPM showcases multi-interval bull traps with LDPM ceilings noted at $6,100.
    -   Overall, risk for bull trap but overall outlook remains in BUPO (of the bearish variety).




                                            SUMMARY


           Last week ended with extra-EPR price movements for both $SPY and
           $QQQ. In response, VoEx-daily has moved out of the P.Z., indicating a
           forming bull trap.

           The gamma hedging heatmaps showcase diffuse purchasing support and
           no objection to a [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] week but are poised to provide selling pressure
           if either move too much in the spot-down direction.

           Put-selling has decreased slightly on $SPY and remains near-zero on
           $QQQ. Thus, mixed reviews for the week ahead but the next day or so
           should officiate if $SPY’s outlooks have changed to be in-line with $QQQ’s.

           MWGS data showcase bullish data and additional VoEx analysis shows
           the market is still within the window of bullish outlooks but we may be
           migrating out of it.

           LDPM shows a ceiling at $6,100 in a multi-interval manner.

           Taken together, it seems a bull run to $6,100 followed by resumption of
           bearish action seems highly likely.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                             01/20/2025
                                                      DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with bearish leanings, and it would seem those leanings weren’t
quite the leanings to lean with but rather leanings from which we should have leaned!
Frankly, I’m not sure what that means, what with the lean meanings about what leaning
with a lean means so we should probably move on.
Despite our requests, the market opted to move in a positive direction with $SPY heading
a defiant march of 2.94% northward while $QQQ, heading from the opposing side,
marched at a click of 2.87% 1. The immediate response to this is disgust, and once that
passes, curiosity at $SPY having moved more than $QQQ takes its stead as it is not often
the case! Let’s see if this finding holds up with normalizing the price movements against
the market’s EPR.
$SPY’s EPR from last week was ±1.86%, while $QQQ’s was ±2.42% - these values
normalize the week’s moves to 1.58 for $SPY and 1.86 for QQQ.
So – whereas $SPY moved more than $QQQ in nominal terms, with respect to who moved
more than the market was expecting, that remains squarely within $QQQ’s court. This
extra-QQQ movement seems to align nicely with our view of liquidity from last week
whereby $QQQ’s journey up and to the north was largely devoid of selling pressure, unlike
$SPY’s:




1
    If these two indexes left the market at the same time, how long until they would meet?

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                               01/20/2025
And so, this week, we have our assignment and (frankly) it’s not the easiest of tasks. The
main goal is to ensure the overall outlook (of continued downside) is still a reasonable
outlook, and then and even if not, we have to investigate the market’s response to the
extra-EPR moves so as to discern if that strange feeling of being watched is the spectre
of mean-reversion lurking over our shoulders, or just an in-law.
Let’s get started.
Let’s get started.
As usual, let’s take a peek at VoEx:




VoEx is still within the Propagation Zone, while VoEx-daily moves rapidly towards
stability. As we discussed last week, or a week or two ago (it’s getting hard to track, time
keeps adding up), the benefit of VoEx being within the P.Z. is that it allows for heuristics,
namely, bearish ones, and so, any bullish performance is prefixed with the ”trap”
designator so as to remind us that the overall outlook remains downtrodden.
That is to say, VoEx-daily is giving us bullish butterflies in our bellies, while VoEx is
cautioning the the wisdom of this diet.
Or, in other words, a bull trap looks like its forming.
Or, said differently, in the future, the prudent outlook per VoEx-daily is bullish performance
but VoEx-trend’s persistence within the P.Z. foretells a shortened lifespan thereof.
Or even said as: down then up, innit?
Ok enough of that.
Moving onwards, we step right into the past.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    01/20/2025
You’ll remember from last week:


                                              “




                                 “-Weekly Chat 2025-01-13
Well, as we saw in the preamble, that is exactly what the week pushed for. The
interpretation at the time was that this was an unlikely eventuality, given the selling
pressure, and overall market positioning.
Boy were yowe wrong! In pursuit of no repeats, lets investigate the gamma environment
for the week ahead:




Identical orientations – sort of. With respect to the shared directionality, it’s difficult to
discern, mainly because $QQQ’s current vast gamma neutrality is quite extensive, leaving
only thin ridges of purchasing support and selling pressure. $SPY sees an equal “blob” of
gamma neutrality in the [$+, 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +] direction, but with less oppression than its counterpart-
blob on $QQQ.
All-in-all, the hedging environments seem benign should spot rise but in general, spot
decreasing will see selling pressure and gamma neutrality; and woe is the market who
finds itself without hedging!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    01/20/2025
Moving along, let’s take a peek at the put-selling:




With renewed obstinance, $QQQ put-sellers have continued their inaction while $SPY’s
put-selling has been maintained in the interim. Current $SPY data looks to show put-
selling decreasing, but it is still quite
elevated, so perhaps a day or two is needed
to ensure the trend downwards is true.
If it is to pass, then this would put $SPY and
$QQQ in a put-selling cessationary situation
– the outcome for us from that is that for the
foreseeable future, the probability of
profitability of the general [$+, 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] -direction
seems to be diminishing quite extensively!
Next, up we see the Market-Wide Gamma
Squeeze data showcasing a substantial
decrease in gamma squeezes, with a 31%
decrease        week-over-week!       This
impressiveness extends from the 10-, and
20-day anchors as well with a 32% and 35%
decrease in market squeeze counts
therefrom, respectively.
In our last chat about MWGS, we talked
about how the flow of long gamma from the
market seemed to have less to do with
options flows and more to do with the dynamics of gamma and spot, and it would seem
that after a 1.5x week for $SPY and a 1.8x week for $QQQ (with respect to spot), it seems
this process is in overdrive (using $SPY and $QQQ as quick references, we see the
decrease in IV was reasonable as well with a 21% decrease in IV for $SPY and a 16%
reduction in IV for $QQQ) pushing GTM straight up, well into positive territory.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                               01/20/2025
Nonetheless, all the handwaving in the world can’t alter the data as they stand: MWGS
counts have decreased, GTM is positive, and growth is decreasing! This suggests a
bullish future ahead!
So – its quite the mixed environment.
At the start, we saw VoEx with its bearish data, namely, VoEx being within the Propagation
Zone. This places the default outlook as: BUPO (of the bearish variety) and so the default
outlook is down.
VoEx-daily, however, for $SPY and (to a lesser extent) $QQQ are moving out of the P.Z.
with vigor which brings about bullish outlooks. However, since its BUPO season (of the
bearish variety), this bullish outlook becomes “bull trap”. And so, VoEx-daily suggests
there may be a bull-trap forming.
In trying to discern if VoEx-daily is onto something, a look at the gamma hedging
heatmaps showcases a reasonably stable environment - $QQQ’s purchasing support is a
bit thin but there doesn’t seem to be anything stopping a [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] week.
In looking to see if the put-sellers have a similar outlook, we see mixed and dynamic
reviews; $SPY’s put-selling seems to be decreasing, but its current state is still quite
elevated whereas $QQQ’s behavior is still near-zero. Thus, no shared opinion for us to
lean on here (for now?).
Expanding our view from the put-sellers to the market-at-large by-way of the Market-Wide
Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data, we find less ambiguous data whereby GS growth seems
to be officially in negative territory (which shouldn’t be too surprising given the recent 20%
decline in counts), and GTM is positive - but even this isn’t without controversy as the
Growth-trend is still quite elevated, teasing growth to join it back up in the lofty heights.
Taken together, these are surprisingly bullish data – perhaps VoEx-daily’s suspicion for a
bull-trap is reasonably supported in the data.
Moving onwards with the data analysis, you’ll remember from Weekly Chat 2025-01-06,
there was discussion regarding the relationship between (neo-)VoEx and future price
changes. This analysis produced the three-panel graph (next page) which showcased that
there was a narrow window of casual VoEx ascension out of the Propagation Zone back
into stability (and thus, resumed bullish performance). Last time, we were just within the
window, suggesting bullish performance ahead for the next 20-days.
Let’s see where we are now!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    01/20/2025
Still within the window but migration has us leaning towards the left and thus out of the
window for sustained bullish performance.
Perhaps this data will be telling in a week, but for now, it still puts us in the window, and
thus, tentative bullish outlooks!
Thus, before we ask prudence for their outlook, let’s ourselves look out for what LDPM/S
look like. But – just to add some fun into our lives, let’s do so with some ~whacky~
intervals, namely, the 144-, 377-, and the 610-, and the 987- minute charts for ES futures.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   01/20/2025
Bull-traps abound! The highest view at 987-minutes showcases bearish liquidity despite
the bullish performance, and a nearing test of LDPM-5.
Additionally, its worth noting that in all views except for the lowest (144; top-left), it
appears that $6,070-ish is an established ceiling of sorts; LDPM-7 on the 377-minute,
LDPM-6 and LDPM-7 on the 610-minute, and LDPM-5 on the 987-minute!
That’s quite the confluence, as the kids say.
Taken together, it seems reasonable that bullish performance persists a tad more,
perhaps to about $6,100 on ES or so, but with the multi-interval LDPM ceilings, the spectre
of ~mean-reversion~, the thin purchasing support and VoEx, manifesting robust bullish
dreams is difficult at present.


Quick Note: !
TradingView wasn’t happy with the last version of LTA that I put up. I switched everyone
over to the old beta version. If you haven’t been re-added to the old beta version let me
know.
I am re-doing another official LTA and will let it sit for a week to ensure TV “accepts” it.
More to come –
Happy trading,
Justin

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    01/20/2025
