                                   Weekly Chat 03/04/2024


                                          Main Points


           -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ have resumed Bullish-until-proven-otherwise (BUPO)
               with their respective Divergences “softening”.
           -   Hedging Heatmaps present with diffuse and local selling pressure.
           -   Put-selling remains near-zero.
           -   Gamma Squeeze data show continued destruction of gamma squeezes with a
               positive GTM print.
           -   VoEx Variance suggests the market is “cooling off” within stability.
           -   Overall, bullish outlooks return.



                                          SUMMARY



          The threat of VoEx Divergence on $SPY and $QQQ remained high last
          week but this threat has been mitigated with VoEx Divergence “softening”
          on both indexes. Concurrently, VoEx-daily has risen further into the
          Inhibition Zone. Such movement brings back BUPO (of the Bullish Variety).

          Hedigng Heatmaps remain largely the same with diffuse and local selling
          pressure. Gamma neutrality exists for both in a $+/IV- path.

          Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data show a week-over-week decrease in
          the number of gamma squeezes and a persistently positive GTM print.

          VoEx Variance shows market-wide VoExes exiting the Inhibition Zone into
          stability, all-the-while VoExes are “loosing energy”. In short: VoEx Variance
          shows a market that is cooling off within stability.

          In sum, these data print bullish expectations for the week a head with
          emphasis on monitoring DLPs and VoEx for any change-in-behavior.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        03/04/2024
                                               DETAILS




Hello everyone!
First let me start off this week by apologizing for the obscene number of technical difficulties that
arose this week. In short, I am trying to do two things at once that, perhaps, shouldn’t be done
simultaneously but – what can you do; c’est là qu’on en est. This affected a wide-range of DDS
functionality but mainly LDPM calculation, and report production.
The goal is to have these pesky new bugs fixed by Monday so that regular progress can get back-
on-tracks. I’ll keep you updated!
Also

The Beta Robot is up for anyone who would like to try it. You should have been added to it already
but if not, let me know and I’ll get you added. I’ll include the patch notes for the new version in this
weekly Email!
Now, let’s get started.
Preliminary start
Last week, we left off with predominantly bearish leanings, which mainly rested on the dissolution
of BUPO (of the Bullish variety) due to VoEx Divergence, little-to-no DLP activity, and a GTM that
looked like it was going to go negative.

Naturally, in face of these bearish prints, the market rallied in the latter-half of the week to produce
a week-over-week change in $SPY of +0.98% and $QQQ moving a grand total of +2.02%. The
movement throughout the week can be visualized below in the Hedging Heatmaps:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            03/04/2024
Nothing particularly noteworthy – the pre-week dip brought $QQQ proximal to purchasing support,
which worked to bounce it back up somewhat.
Once more, we can see that on the 28th’s there was a nice re-emergence of purchasing support
on $QQQ:




Nifty!
After the purchasing support, $QQQ rebounded a casual 2.37% - 68% more than the EPR from
Wednesday to Friday (± 1.17%). One would be remiss to not point out that $SPY’s lack-luster
performance from Wednesday to Friday (a meager 1.30%, and only 45% greater-than-EPR from
Wednesday to Friday), which was accompanied by the absence of purchasing support emerging.
Coincidence?1



1
    Queue Twilight Zone theme.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     03/04/2024
Perhaps it is worth noting that this purchasing support, which has recently been manifesting on
both $SPY and $QQQ, has now only manifested on $QQQ.
Thus, it would seem that our bearish expectations for the week were thwarted by the sudden
emergence of purchasing support. Nonetheless, this shouldn’t’ve affected the rest of the data,
which should still be pointing towards bearish inclinations, no?
Let’s find out.

Finding out starts here!
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see two curious things:




VoEx Divergence has softened, and VoEx has returned back into the Inhibition Zone; the
consequence thereof? BUPO! (of the Bullish variety). Yes, BUPO is returned.
Is this the same for $QQQ? Yes – it would appear so.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     03/04/2024
Thus, per VoEx, things are back in Bullish-until-proven-otherwise.
Let’s take a peek at the neo-VoExes to see if they concur.




They do!
Last week, we commented on how it appeared as though VoEx (remember in this version, VoEx
is the gold line [formerly: VoEx-trend]) was moving towards the Propagation Zone – this was
tentatively bearish (but officially bullish since VoEx is technically still within the Stable Zone), and
we see that the situation is much the same this week: VoEx-daily has been inside of the “neutral
zone”, between Stability and the Propagation Zone, while VoEx has been moving towards the
Propagation Zone.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            03/04/2024
This is a bullish configuration but it does present with some cause-for-pause due to the overall
trajectory of VoEx. But, until VoEx-daily dives deep into the Propagation Zone or VoEx moves itself
there, the outlook is officially: bullish.

Thus, per VoEx, it would appear things are back in Bullish-until-proven-otherwise.
Moving from VoEx to the Hedging Environment, we see much-the-same as the prior several
weeks.




$SPY’s hedging environment (right) shows
diffuse and local selling pressure once-
more, with the Influence Distribution
suggesting neutral-to-red week ahead.




                                                      $QQQ (left) shows more prominent selling
                                                      pressure than $SPY but with more proximal
                                                      purchasing support (should it muster a $-
                                                      /IV- move). Both present with gamma
                                                      neutrality extending in the $+/IV+ direction.
                                                      In addition to both $SPY and $QQQ’s
                                                      influence distribution suggesting negative
                                                      moves for the week ahead, it might be worth
                                                      noting that they also present with
                                                      reasonable right-tails.
                                                      This suggests a low-probability of a big-
                                                      move in the positive direction.
Perhaps worth keepin’ an eye on as the week progresses; early adoption of gamma neutrality may
work to facilitate a larger-than-EPR move for the week in the bullish direction.
Moving from gamma-as-a-whole to just the puts, let’s check in on how the put-selling is going:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        03/04/2024
A bunch of nothing still! Perhaps the expectations for $+ or IV- are weak for the week ahead.
It’ll be worth keeping an eye on DLPs if the early-part of the week is bullish: lack of put-selling
during bullish runs may suggest the risk still remains too high for reversion (and thus, a high risk
of $- and IV+) which would work against any desires to sell puts.
For now, however, this is a
neutral-to-bearish print as there
does not appear to be much
expectation for profitability
located down a $+/IV- path.
From put-selling, let’s check in
on the Market-Wide Gamma
Squeeze data to see what they
are up to.
On the right we see just that.
The market experienced an 8%
week-over-week decrease in the
number of gamma squeezes,
bringing the total number down
to 1,008.
This has been accompanied by
a persistently positive GTM –I
think we can definitively
conclude by now, that this
persistently positive GTM may
be different than the previous
episodes of large-positive-
prints     that     we    have
investigated.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         03/04/2024
Thus, let’s abstract ourselves from the hypothetical and stick with the data: a positive GTM print
with reducing gamma squeeze counts is bullish as it suggests continued destruction of gamma
squeezes (via GTM showing positive gamma “flowing” towards the market), which is associated
with future market appreciation.
Now, before we conclude, let’s take a quick gander at VoEx Variance – data we haven’t examined
in quite a long time!2
The last time we visited VoEx Variance, we found that the behavior had moved against our
expectations, and it would appear that this is still the case! Let’s take a peek:




The original expectation that was held was that once VoEx Variance suggested things were
“collapsing” (the dots rapidly dropping from IZ → Stability → PZ) is that the market would move
into the Propagation Zone (like in prior episodes), which would foretell a market correction. This
market correction was expected to be the main avenue of “cooling off” for the market – much like
the prior episodes.
But this time, it would appear the collapse has only served to bring VoEx Variance for the majority
of ETFs into stability!

2
 VoEx Variance is a tool that helps identify where VoExes are scattered throughout the market and how “energetic”
these VoExes are. The data are grouped by respective ETF, and the “average” VoEx for all the ETF’s constituents are
plotted based on which zone the overall VoEx is in. Within each zone, the higher the VoEx value is, the more
“energetic” it is, and the lower it is, the less energetic it is. A good review of VoEx Variance can be found in Weekly
Chat 2024-01-02.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                          03/04/2024
Is this a soft landing? Who knows3!

But, what it does tell us, though, is that the majority of the VoExes throughout the market are
currently low-energy (respectively) and within the Stable Zone. This is, by-and-large, a bullish print!
Unless data starts to appear in the Propagation Zone in the coming weeks to months, then I think
it might be time to re-examine how much cooling off the market has left to do!
Overall, it would appear that the data are bullish:

               -   VoEx is in BUPO (of the Bullish variety) once more,
               -   MWGS data and GTM suggest continued gamma squeeze destruction, and
               -   VoEx Variance suggests that things are “cooling off” within stability rather than
                   falling further into the Propagation Zone.
These bullish prints are tempered somewhat by:
               -   No put-selling noted for the week-a-head,
               -   Tentative bearish tempering given neo-VoEx’s movement towards the Propagation
                   Zone as well as the previous “start” of VoEx Divergence on “regular” VoEx, and
               -   Vanna-unstable hedging heatmaps.
Overall, a bullish stance will be taken for the week a head but with a close eye on DLP behavior
and VoEx. The ideal bullish scenario is a VoEx that rises further into the Inhibition Zone while put-
selling starts to increase.


Happy trading,


Justin




3
    Someone call Powell.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            03/04/2024
