                                  Weekly Chat 08/12/2024


                                        Main Points



    -   Downside is expected.




                                         SUMMARY



          VoEx remains in the Propagation Zone, the hedging Heatmap are set to
          provide little-to-no meaningful response to any potential $-/IV+ moves.

          The Market-Wide Gamma squeeze data show progressive involvement of
          gamma flows – suggesting the medium-term may extend to the longer
          term.

          Overall, downside is expected until things change.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  08/12/2024
                                              DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with continued bullish ideations all-the-while bracing for more further
impact; and in consequence, these braces left not only our pecuniae dentes straightened but our
portfolio’s pecuniaes as well.
That is to say, the week-over-week move in $SPY amounted to a flat-lined 0.02% to the green and
in $QQQ, a paltry 0.37% - nothing too exciting. Nonetheless, this is, however, quite advantageous
for us. Despite being on the wrong side, a relatively-flat market will allow us to see some of the
under-belly gurglings (should there be any) a little bit more clearly.

So, let’s shift through the rubble to see if anything stands out.
Rabble Rousing in Rumble
Let’s look at week’s progress via the hedging environments first:




Quite the movements noted! It would seem that the early-start of the week saw rapid movement
towards gamma neutrality on both $QQQ and $SPY, only to see things raise back up.
In taking a slight detour, I figured I would share an image I annotated for a conversation on Twitter.
It has to do with Monday’s movements and how there may have been evidence that they were
spurred by an “exogenous” event (rather than, say, by hedging).
Despite the veracity of the claim, there was some evidence of someone entering/exiting within
\ES on the 1-Minute. Have a look!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           08/12/2024
The idea is that if you view LDPS as showcasing which side of the book is being “eager” (i.e.: Red
[bearish] means the ASK is “eager” while Green [bullish] means the BID is “eager”) the in
conjunction with LDPM, you can use this to see when/where certain liquidity pushes are
originating from.
Near the left of the graph, we see:

   -   Red LDPS
   -   LDPM above the price
   -   Liquidity is “smooth” (LDPM isn’t all squiggly)

This is a classic example of a smooth descent being “agreed-upon” by the eager ask (eager to
transact) and an organic bid (naturally up-taking shares at lower price-points).
Then, a large spike of liquidity – since it is moving away from the price and it is above the price,
this means that the liquidity is originating from the ask; thus, we see the introduction of an
Aggressive Ask. Aggressive ask (or price-insensitive) will transact where-ever possible – this
inflates liquidity (artificial liquidity) and will ingest down the book – until they leave or another
force enters to absorb (as we see at the bottom spike near 02:00 towards the left).
I’ll let you digest the rest – but I thought this was a nice showing of LDPM and LDPS interplay.
How does this have anything to do with us?
Well – supposing Monday was a “liquidating event” by someone, then it stands to reason that the
market’s response was quite healthy after-the-fact; but supposing Monday was not simply the



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          08/12/2024
product of a liquidating event, then Monday’s performance, when incorporated with the rest of
the week’s, suggests a less-healthy market.
Let’s move quickly to VoEx to see how things are shaping up:




Curiously – the flat price movement did little to inspire any stability, and VoEx is still quite
comfortable within the Propagation Zone. Easy interpretation this week: downside expected still.
How do the Gamma Hedging Heatmaps feel about this?




Mixed it would seem: a vanna-unstable orientation for $SPY with a surprisingly stable orientation
for $QQQ.
The net effect suggests downside, as do the influence distributions, who suggest flat-to-downside
is the likely outcome in the week ahead.

Is this outlook shared with our put-selling friends?




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      08/12/2024
Not in the traditional sense – it would seem both parties are bracing for little-to-no profitability in
the $+/IV- sector.

So, in sum, we have: VoEx suggests downside; hedging heatmaps show concern and a bias
towards flat-to-down, and our put-selling friends showing little enthuse. Not too bullish it seems!
Now, let’s move to the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data – something that we haven’t
been paying too much attention to in the past few weeks prior, as we found that the gamma flows
were being “isolated” somewhat from the surface turbulence. However, as our timeframe has
                                                 been expanding, so too has the breadth of this
                                                 turbulence’s influence.
                                                    We see that on 07/15, GTM went negative, and
                                                    since then gamma squeezes have risen 37%
                                                    within the market, causing the overall growth-
                                                    rate has become positive (top graph, blue line).
                                                    Subsequently and concurrently to these
                                                    changes, GTM has maintained its negative
                                                    stance, suggesting that short-gamma has
                                                    continued to flow towards the market – and,
                                                    with GTM-ema (gold line) in sight, it would seem
                                                    the negative gamma flows have been
                                                    increasing in magnitude since around 07/15 as
                                                    well.
                                                    This paints a picture that the gamma-space is
                                                    now being pulled towards this market-gravity-
                                                    event. The consequence of this is a
                                                    prolongation in the expected time-horizon and
                                                    severity of the current downside.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            08/12/2024
Is this view-point reached via some other data-avenue? Indeed! Let’s check out what VoEx
Variance is up to:




Putting data within the Propagation Zone is what it’s up to!
This seems to be quite definitive for raising the downside risk to a pretty elevated space – at least
until one of the newer data cools off (either gamma squeezes start decreasing; VoEx-daily rises
out of P.Z. [at least], GTM goes positive, DLPs start being opened, etc.), or until reasonable
downside is realized.
In terms of anticipating a bounce (something that is always on everyone’s minds during these
types of events), I’ll wait for VoEx-daily to spike into stability on $SPY (or $QQQ, dealer’s choice),
and then ride the surge.
Otherwise, I’ll be watching the show!


Happy trading,


Justin

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           08/12/2024
