                                    Weekly Chat 09/30/2024


                                          Main Points



    -   VoEx is within Stability. VoEx-daily has stalled in a downwards trajectory.
    -   Hedging environments are vanna-stable.
    -   MWGS data show negative GTM growing in magnitude.
    -   LDPM/S suggest a liquidity vacuum has formed.



                                           SUMMARY



           Outlooks remains bullish as VoEx has re-entered stability. VoEx-daily has
           stalled in a downwards-looking-trajectory, which raises some concern for
           a rapid movement into the Propagation Zone (and subsequent short-term
           downside).

           In protection against this, the hedging environments are poised to offer
           some purchasing support – but this aid is limited by IV: too large an
           increase and the purchasing support will dissipate.

           The MWGS data show a deepening GTM but no real growth noted.

           Some handwaving with LDPM and LDPS suggest a liquidity vacuum has
           formed, and its resolution potentially neigh.

           Overall, technically bullish but a close eye on the liquidity vacuum.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        09/30/2024
                                               --
                                             Alert!

                                               --


Re: Operating Procedure 11: Notification of Processing Error – High Priority
2024-09-30


There is an issue affecting the directionalization process regarding the flow of Dealer Long Puts
for $SPY and $QQQ.
This issue currently seems to be affecting ONLY the current Dealer Long Put data and graphs
found on the Macro Report PDFs. The issue appears to stem from the previous upgrade process
aimed at increasing the resolution of the Gamma Hedging Heatmaps. During this upgrade, an
inadvertent side-effect was introduced to one of the core processes causing mis-alignment of
certain greek calculations that was not noticed until recently.
I am starting the process of cleaning up and going back to fix the data. I will let you know when
the data have been updated and fixed.
I sincerely apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused, and I will work diligently to
clear things up.




Justin
Deep Dive Stocks
Justin@DeepDiveStocks.com




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      09/30/2024
                                             DETAILS




Hello every-body!
Last week, we left off with bullish ideations and that served us immensely well what with $SPY
moving +0.57% and $QQQ taking on a mighty 0.89% to the affirmative.
We can visualize these moves below, with the hedging heatmaps:




Well – sort of. But the idea is that the market mainly mucked-about right about where it started
for the week; there were some ups and some downs but mainly just a mingle around the last
remaining hors d’oevres to see whose going to snatch the last pig-in-a-blanket.
In response, we will see below that if we wave our hands a little bit, we might be able to take an
educated guess as to where our blob-of-stability might wonder off to.
Wantful Wondering (whilst Whimsically Worried) where Were-markets Woam




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       09/30/2024
Ever-so-frightful have the markets been of late! Up, down, then some times back up; very unusual.
In pursuit of gathering some clarity, let’s check out VoEx:




Bullish all around! VoEx-daily is in Stability, as is VoEx.

Speaking of VoEx, VoEx-daily specifically, it might be worth observing its downward-facing-
nature. In short: perhaps there is still room for a pull-back but overall, things look robustly bullish.
How doth the Hedging Environments fair in said environments? Pray, let us journey forthwith to
ascertain enlightenment thereupon ourselves.
Here!




A reasonable sturdy environment – albeit 1 with diminished purchasing support noted on $QQQ.
Supposing IV rises sufficiently in the event of any downside, the current envirnoment would
escape the introduction of additional selling pressure.
Overall, however, as the Influence Distributions suggest, the overall outlook is a flat-to-bullish with
such uninspiring layouts.
No enlightenment for us today.



1
 Fun anecdote no one wants to know about: I thought, for the longest time, that “albeit” was pronounced “all-bite”
cause, ykno’, German; but! apparently its pronounced “all-be-it” which, after some additional consideration, does
suggest that it might be better spelled “all-be-it” if that’s how we want to pronounce it.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                     09/30/2024
Moving on (not to the Dealer Long Puts, unfortunately), but to the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze
(MWGS) data, we see things look reasonably calm:




                                                               Gamma squeezes are at a near-all-
                                                               time-low (the pre-2020 average
                                                               count was about ~500!) and
                                                               although GTM seems to be negative,
                                                               it doesn’t seem, for now, to be
                                                               erratically so.




Now, the take-away I have from these data is that things are overall bullish but there is still some
weakness: VoEx-daily is moving south, hedging environments are weakish, so if there were
exogenous sources of downside, it appears the market wouldn’t be quite too apt at handling them,
in the near-term (medium and long-term outlooks are bullish per VoEx).
So, let’s turn to LDPM/S to see what the liquidity conditions look like:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         09/30/2024
LDPS is showing Bullish and Improving liquidity as the price stalls. Although initially this sounds
good, there are additional bits of information that suggest some caution:
       1) [Top panel; ES on the daily with LDPM-Fib & LDPS]: LDPM is inverted with the standard
          LDPM-fib load-out. This means, in short, that the price appreciation is likely not going to
          stick.
       2) [Bottom panel; ES on the daily with LDPM-Fib with WMA2 smoothing & LDPS]: Here we see
          that there’s been a bouncy-bounce pattern3 of sorts, and it would appear that a cresting is
          underway. With this view, we can see there’s about 5% down until LDPM-89, and ~8% down
          until LDPM-233.
So, if we were to peek-between-the-lines some, or perhaps, move the tea-cup around before one
more peek at the tealeaves, it might suggest the early signs of a local-drop.

[ Hand waving time extraӧrdinaire!
What does 𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵𝐵ℎ + 𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼 + 𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔𝑔 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃 𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴 = ?
Well, let’s do some handwaving to find out. Actually – its not even that much handwaving, so you
can put the sweatbands away.
To start, some review.


2
    If you like levels, I’ve found the WMA smoothing is very nice for that.
3
    Yes, that is the official term.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                09/30/2024
            First:

Book Side       Classification Price Sensitivity                   Transacts at:          Consequence                Liquidity

Bid             Organic         Yes | Short                                 Bid                       $-                      Provider

Bid             Eager           Typically not; Occasionally                Ask                       $+                 Depends; Typically
                                sensitive.                                                                                  Drainer.

Bid             Absent          Very                                   Established         Liquidity Vacuum →                 Vacuum
                                                                       Organic Bid                    $-

Ask             Organic         Yes | Long                                 Ask                       $+                       Provider

Ask             Eager           Typically not; Occasionally                 Bid                       $-                Depends; Typically
                                sensitive.                                                                                  Drainer.

Ask             Absent          Very                                       Ask             Liquidity Vacuum →                 Vacuum
                                                                                                     $+



            Now with those terms out of the way, let’s see what they mean:
            To start, if we conceptualize LDPS within this frame work, it ends up being a reliable indicator of
            which side of the book is eager; when LDPS is showing “Bullish” it means that the bid is the
            dominant eager force present; and conversely, “Bearish” means that the dominant force is an
            eager ask.
            LDPM can be conceptualized in similar fashion, but from a slightly different perspective, as LDPM
            tells us which side is organic. When the price is above LDPM4 (bullish configuration), we can say
            that the organic side is the organic ask, and conversely, when LDPM is above the price (a bearish
            configuration), it can be said that the bid is organic.

            So, in that vein; we see an inverted LDPM (meaning the bid is organic) yet LDPS is telling us that
            the ask is supplying liquidity! A paradox!
            How can that be?
            Well, to answer that, let’s start with a peek at some “standard” configurations, and then take a
            walk down memory lane (i.e.: look at this month on $ES) in search of an answer.




            4
              This is mainly applicable only for non-smoothed; the behavior of LDPM is different with smoothing as it looses
            various sensitivities that help identify organic; For the most part, when I am talking about “LDPM” in loose terms, it
            is typically LDPM-89 / LDPM-144.

            Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                         09/30/2024
The typical equity in the market that is experiencing long-term appreciation sees an abundance
of eager bid and an organic ask. It works something like this:
                                       The eager bid pushes up from the organic bid, meets the
                                       organic ask (at the ask), and this works to drive the price up.


                                       As this occurs, the ideal is that the organic bid will slowly
                                       continue to migrate up with the eager bid, because, well, if
                                       the organic bids goal is to buy low and sell high (and that’s
                                       what they actually want to do), then they will have to move
                                       their bid up as the price rises if they want a chance at
                                       capturing future profits!


This environment can also be described with respect to liquidity, let’s
take a look (right). We can see that the eager bid is the liquidity taker
and the liquidity supplier is the ask. To determine this, it can be helpful
to ask “Which side needs to transact” – here, the answer is obvious:
the eager side (or else they wouldn’t be eager).
So, in conjunction, we have LDPM that can identify eager and organic,
and LDPS who can identify who is supplying liquidity. Convenient!
Now with that in mind, let’s take a peek at what happens when things become
mixed.

In the chart above, starting around 09/2024, LDPM shows the bid is the dominant organic force
(by way of being above the price), and LDPS demonstrates an eager ask; and indeed, during this
period, the price was decreasing as expected. Thus, this means there was an eager ask, meeting
                                           the organic bid helping to move the price lower.
                                           During this time, liquidity was decreasing
                                           [Worsening], suggesting that the eager ask was
                                           stretching quite thin!
                                               ($ES can’t really run out of organic bid.)




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                              09/30/2024
We can visualize this timeframe below:




Above we see on the left the “state of things” and how conditions changed after said changes.

Then [1] happens which is demonstrated by LDPM/S:
   -   LDPM shows the recent price appreciation has met the organic ask (notice LDPM-89 and
       LDPM-144 dip below the candle)
   -   LDPS shows a bullish configuration suggesting the ask is supplying liquidity.
In combination, this means the ask became the liquidity supplier to an eager bid! Neato!
Then, price appreciated, as seen below. From the above until about the 20th when LDPM-13 shoots
up, $ES appreciated some ~5%; afterwards (until now) it has moved about 0.70% (over a
comparable timeframe).
Oh – real quick; A good time to introduce the axion: there can only be 1 organic party!

Now, let’s look at how conditions have changed per LDPM and LDPS after LDPM-13 crossed over
(and then some) [2]:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        09/30/2024
What a mess! So, we see that as liquidity improved, the price stagnated and LDPM-13 flashed
above the price, suggesting some twitching in the structure of the current status quo. Namely, it
appears that an early, and budding eager ask is forming (demonstrated with the higher-order
LDPMs moving to rise above the price).
But even more dangerously, it shows that the eager ask has liquidity !
So, the big question is: what happens when the eager bid runs out (i.e.: if LDPM-89 makes a
crossover before LDPM un-inverts). Or, conversely, what happens if the organic bid is convinced
to join the party? Let’s take a peek:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      09/30/2024
Scenario 1 (left) is that the eager bid disappears5, and the newly budding-eager ask plummets
and grows significantly downwards in search of a bid. In this, liquidity will likely stay “Improving”
as the eagerness of the eager ask will likely cause little hesitation in things as the price moves
down.

In scenario 2 (right), the organic bid “wakes up” in a sense, and rises to the occasion. In this
scenario, there is an expectation that the price should dip, and liquidity will fall slightly as the two
reconcile their separation (via the liquidity vacuum).
How will we know which is which?
Well, scenario 1 will present with LDPM moving rapidly towards the price as the eager ask
accelerates in numbers while the eager bid starts to get digested. This will present with LDPM
moving rapidly above the price. Once the eager bid is gone the eager ask will have to move to the
organic bid who will then supply liquidity and cause LDPS to turn red.
Scenario 2 is more languished: chop as LDPM corrects its inversion; as long as LDPS continues to show
green (meaning that the bid is eager), then the chop should resolve on the upside.




5
  Reminder: eager bids can be price insensitive! Such as, say, Hedgers! Of which some have been noted to be
increasingly thin lately.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                    09/30/2024
So, the data have returned to a medium-bullish outlook with some potential for some near-term
excitement baked in. To that end, unless things fall sufficiently and VoEx starts rapidly altering
course, gamma squeezes start to grow, etc. (you know the drill by now), I’ll still consider the
downside to be contained and a “buy-the-dip” event (with an eye on LDPM/S, of course).




Happy trading!
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       09/30/2024
