                                   Weekly Chat 2025-05-12


                                          Main Points



    -   VoEx resides within the Inhibition Zone, bringing with it the Bullish-Until-Proven-
        Otherwise designation.
    -   Gamma-hedging environments showcase $QQQ’s absent gamma-neutral zone once
        more, while $SPY is presented with diffuse purchasing support.
    -   Dealer-Long Put activity remains at zero.
    -   The Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data show a declining GTM and stagnate GS counts.
    -   LDPM/S for $ES are bearish on the near-interval, as are $VX’s near-intervals.
    -   VoEx Variance Distribution graphs continue to deny the existence of a market bottom.
    -   Prudency suggest near-term downside and resolution of the current bull-trap.

                                          SUMMARY



          The data continue to be mixed as the current expected bull-trap steams
          ahead. VoEx has entered into the Inhibition Zone, a finding that is often
          associated with long-term bullish outlooks, but a brief look into VoEx
          during 2022 did highlight two instances of false flags. There is concern
          that current VoEx activity might also be a false flag.

          In the near-term, the hedging environments are supportive for bullish
          performance, while $QQQ starts the week with a ceiling of selling pressure
          located at $500 and onwards. Additionally, the MWGS data showcases
          stagnate GS counts (at about 1,000) and an ever-so declining (but still
          positive) GTM.

          Despite this near-term support for bullish performances found so far,
          LDPM/S offer mixed views which are difficult to reconcile with one
          another, both when comparing $ES to $VX as well as the lower-interval
          data to the higher-interval data. Namely, the VoEx Variance data do not
          support the notion that the market has experienced a reversal. Nor do the
          DLP data, which demonstrate continued absence from the usual bottom-
          finders.

          Taken together, this paints a market still in the thralls of a bull-trap, and
          with the local ceilings found on $ES, low-interval bearish liquidity
          conditions, and the lack of DLP activity, prudency suggests extreme
          caution when forming any future, bullish plans.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of               2025-05-12 to 2025-05-16
                                              DETAILS


Hello every-body!
Last week, we left off with continued angst with regards to the market and its general welfare.
The long discussion ended with expectations by-and-large maintained: continued bull-trap
performance. To this end, the market partially delivered by way of giving $SPY and $QQQ some
bearish performance to the tune of -0.43% for $SPY and -0.18% for $QQQ. Given that these values
are near-zero, they are also well confined within EPR, and so, no EPR table for us this week!
We can see the week’s performance in the Heatmaps below:




$SPY (left) and $QQQ (right) seemed to have stagnated throughout the week.
Thus, this week, our task is similar but not all-together identical as last week: is the bull-trap
continuing? Is it over? And if it is over, is it over because we should resume downside, or is it over
because it has dissolved its trap and is now running free as a bullish spirit.

Let’s see if we can find out!
Data, Data Everywhere but Not an Outlook in Sight
Starting as usual with VoEx, we quite the showing!




$SPY and $QQQ’s VoExes have officially entered into Stability! This is … a conundrum. Namely
because it suggests that our Bull-trap has dissolved into just bullishness, which is something we



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2025-05-12 to 2025-05-16
highlighted last week was unlikely to actually be happening, given the disperse nature of the data
(oops?).
But – here we are! This showing places the the markets officially in a Bullish-until-proven-
otherwise (BUPO) state, which, as the name implies, suggests bullish outlooks are to be adorned
until some time in the future that they shouldn’t be (namely when VoEx leaves stability,
traditionally).

This doesn’t, however, negate the uncertainty one feels when trying to harmonize this outlook
with the other data. To this end, I checked in on 2022’s data to see if VoEx had ever peeked into
stability during the year-long grind down. We can see the graph below:




The answer is yes! It would seem that even VoEx got tripped-up with some of the larger bull-traps
(2022-04 and 2022-08) – not ideal overall but for us it does serve the purpose of (for the first time
ever, perhaps) instilling some significant caution into VoExes’ interpretations. Last week, we
mentioned the idea that the market’s bulltrap was “bending” some things in order to perform, and
I think these data suggest VoEx may have been bent.
Worth noting also that from 2022’s precedence, any rapid movements back into the P.Z. from
VoEx-daily will likely herald a reversal in VoEx’s opinions.

However, should VoEx and VoEx-daily reside within Stability while the rest of the data “catches
up”, then I suppose the bottom has indeed been reached!
So, with these tentatively bullish, outlooks in mind, let’s take a peek at the other data, similar to
last week (albeit slightly quicker) and see if we can hear the data harmonizing towards a bullish
chorus or if there are still some dissonate voices.
Let’s start with the hedging environment:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-05-12 to 2025-05-16
With much-the-same orientation as last week, the hedging environment is poised to offer diffuse
purchasing support for $SPY (with gamma neutrality located in the [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] and [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + ] paths
– not the most opportune of configurations – while $QQQ (right) is poised to offer nothing but
purchasing support, until about $500 at which point $QQQ will reverse like a turncoat and supply
a persistent selling pressure.
Thus, from the hedging environments, one expects not much: perhaps things will get interesting
if IV drops in pursuit of gamma-neutrality, thereby bringing $SPY into selling pressure, or $QQQ
taps into the $500 ceiling of selling pressure but much like the week prior, such environments are
usually most prone to let price wonder aimlessly (without a unified “direction” that the hedging
hedgers are hedging towards).
Moving on, we encounter the put-sellers who,
to their benefit, have remained quite consistent
recently. Such absence is rarely seen with our
choice put-sellers! This means there is little
interest in pursuing profitability in the [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −]
direction, in general (or put more academically:
the risk associated with an inventory of long
gamma, long vanna is simply not ideal).
In working to harmonize our more bullish
outlooks from VoEx, we meet our first
dissonate frequency: it is highly unusual to see
dealer-long put activity not become energetic
prior to a market reversal (which one would
expect to be happening if one expects the
market to now be bullish).
In the identification of this one dissonant
frequency, we can see that, as much as it pains,
the longevity of VoEx’s interpretation must be
brought into question (i.e.: is VoEx being
tricked again like in 2022? Likely.).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                  for the week of           2025-05-12 to 2025-05-16
Moving onwards, let’s check on the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data to see if we see any signs
that the market foundations, after having shed significant gamma squeezes, is starting to cool
                                               off.
                                                          To the left, we see these data – GS counts
                                                          remain fairly consistent at around 1,000, since
                                                          the great sheddening. Of some curious note, is
                                                          GTMs bending towards negativity – perhaps the
                                                          market’s price stalling is letting those pesky
                                                          gamma squeezes catch up once more1.
                                                          For now, these are continued bullish prints – but
                                                          one that is reminiscent of the last time this cycle
                                                          played out (i.e.: 2025-01 to 2025-03).




We can check on the modified MWGS data to see if the predictive growth curves and counts have
anything to tell us.
On the right we see just those
graphs: the Predictive Count Curve
(PCC; brownish) continuing its
descent while the Predictive Growth
Curve (PGC; purple) is negative but,
whereas last week there was some
squinting needed to see if it was
appreciating, now we can definitely
see that the PGC is indeed heading
towards zero! This means that the
breaks being applied to the growth
of gamma squeezes is diminishing



1
 Remember from Weekly Chat 2025-01-13 that the last time there was a significantly rapid reduction in gamma
squeezes, it looked as though it was more to do with the market “moving away from” the gamma squeezes (by way
of the rapid price appreciation and how gamma is distributed) more than “gamma squeezes are naturally decaying”.
A consequence of this finding was that, if true, then the market was effectively “sitting on” a ton of maturing gamma
squeezes. As the market’s price stagnated, the gamma-distributions grew ultimately bringing all of the gamma
squeezes back into the market!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                   for the week of                    2025-05-12 to 2025-05-16
in strength. So, for now, bullish but let’s keep an eye out over the next few days.

Moving right along, let’s take a peek at LDPM/S to see if we can identify any benchmarks for this
awkward market we find ourselves with.




First up, we see $ES with bearish outlooks on the 90-minute (top-left) along with a bear-trap
forming on the 144-minute. Both of these near-term views offer a floor at $5.5k as the most likely
next-stop, which is about a ~4.00% drop from current spot.
Moving on, we see the bull-trap within the 987-minute is finding the LDPM-L6 ceiling at $5.8kish
a noteworthy contender, as so far the market has not tried to push above said restrictions. In a
similar vein, the bear-trap on the 1-Week view is noteworthy for the lack of bullish liquidity
returning, despite the bounce off of LDPM-L2(987) in recent times. This paints the price-action as
less of a recovery and more of, well, just a bounce. To this end, the bounce itself is slated to meet
resistance at LDPM-L6 ($5.8k).
Taken together, this paints a continued tenuous environment on which to rest bullish ideations;
on the short-term we see bearish prints with a liquidity vacuum open below about 4%, while on
the higher-timeframes we see prominent LDPM ceilings offering resistance towards continued
appreciation.
Unless something changes, this paints a bearish outlook for the foreseeable future (ideally we’d
like to see the 1-Week not be bearish if one wants to consider the bear-market to be over).

With these views in mind, how is $VX poised to behave?




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-05-12 to 2025-05-16
These prints are also somehow bearish! Namely because life cannot be that straightforward for
us.
On the 90-minute view (top-left) we see bearish liquidity taking hold as LDPM-L5 does something
strange (admittedly) and moves above LDPM-L6. It is worth noting that the 90-minute view does
show some eager bids that have moved underneath spot!
The 144-minute view shows bearish liquidity while LDPM-L5 works as support. This is bearish as
well.

Moving upwards to the 987-minute (bottom-left), we see a continued presence of eager-asks
hovering above spot as bearish liquidity resigns. This suggests movement down to $16 as the
next step.
And finally, on the weekly view, we see the continued bull-trap underway, with price leveling off in
its descent as it approaches LDPM-L7 (at $12ish).
Taken together, the LDPM/S data are very messy once more! This, on its own, works to disservice
the notion that the market’s foundations are healthy (relatively speaking) enough to support a
market turnaround.

With the near-term data conflicted, let’s take a moment to check on the VoEx Variance distribution
graphs, to see if they have anything to say2.




2
    I expanded this data set! The graphs now contain 5,650,000+ data points for VoEx from the whole market!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                   for the week of                   2025-05-12 to 2025-05-16
These are much the same data as before, except I went and highlighted the boxes that represent
what would eventually become the data prior to what will have become the market turnaround.
We’ve done this before, but this time (since we are becoming familiar) we can skip the
pleasantries of pointing out why these are the highlighted regions3. The net finding from these
data is that the market, in preparation for the bottom, will often find itself flattening out and
migrating to the right – as we have seen before.

But what we haven’t seen before is the current data – which suggests that this just isn’t happening
yet! There is no evidence of the melting-and-move-to-the-right that we’ve seen in previous
instances of market turnarounds. This is particularly noteworthy given that these changes usually
start to manifest about one month prior to the actual bottom.
Thus, it, once again, feels immature to call the market’s foundations sufficiently robust to support
bullish longevity given these data; despite what VoEx might think of the situation.
Taken together, we have structural data (via VoEx Variance distributions) which suggest that the
market is not, in fact, ready to engage in another round of a prolonged bull-run, while VoEx
suggests that, on at least the medium timeframe, bullish performance should resign supreme.
This bullish performance, however, seems fraught with obstacles: the hedging environment (at
least for $QQQ) is poised to offer substantial and persistent selling pressure, should $QQQ
encroach upon ~$500; the dealer long put activity is still zero – suggesting that our financial
overlords are not too keen on attempting to take on the extra-ordinary risk of having an(y)


3
    Weekly Chats: 2025-05-05, 2025-04-28, 2025-04-07, 2025-03-31


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                  for the week of        2025-05-12 to 2025-05-16
inventory of long puts; LDPM and LDPS analysis show that there is bearish outlooks on $ES on
the short-term (90-, and 144-minute intervals) while the long-term intervals (987-minute and 1-
Week) show nearby ceilings!
With such a mixed market, it might help to have a game-plan. So, borrowing from my handy-dandy
paramedic days, let’s look at a Trade Protocol!
Below is just that – its not meant to be used as an absolute map, but rather as a general
framework and guide for working through these, admittedly, very messy markets and data!




I’ll let you study it but for now, suffice to say, the burden of proof rests on the shoulders of the
bulls; the data may appear to be in their favor but the disjointed nature of the crowd’s assertion
suggests that the market may lack the necessary cohesion required to pull off a market
turnaround.
Thus, with prudency ever in mind, outlooks continue to reign towards the erosion of the current
bull-trap performance with resumption towards the downside.

Next week, let’s talk about some changes coming to the dashboard!
Happy trading,

Justin!



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2025-05-12 to 2025-05-16
