                                 Weekly Chat 03/25/2024


                                        Main Points


    -   VoEx for $SPY experienced a VoEx Spike, while $QQQ’s VoEx continued with
        Divergence. This places both in the bearish category for interpretation.
    -   Hedging environments have shifted with $SPY showing diffuse, local selling pressure
        and $QQQ showing respectable purchasing support in the $-/IV+ quadrant.
    -   Gamma Squeeze data show a minor decrease in GS throughout the week, but GTM is
        continuing to print negative values.
    -   DLP behavior is present but quite minimal.
    -   Overall, continued bearish outlooks abound.

                                        SUMMARY



          Last week, there was concern for imminent downside given VoEx’s
          behavior, and $SPY’s hedging environment.

          Despite these expectations, the market experienced a robust bullish event
          with $SPY exceeding the market’s expectations by 3.59 times. During this
          period, $SPY’s, VoEx spiked and $QQQ’s continued with divergence.

          Current data is supportive for a continued bearish outlook: VoEx behavior
          is messy and neoVoEx remains steadfast in its trajectory into the
          Propagation Zone (wherein it already resides for $QQQ).

          $SPY’s hedging environment being filled with selling pressure. $QQQ’s
          environment, on the other hand, shows a stable orientation with downside
          purchasing support present.

          DLP behavior is present but extremely muted, especially when compared
          to previous episodes of anticipating profit-producing-proximals.

          Gamma squeeze data show continued bearish GTM prints, despite a
          minor decrease in gamma squeezes seen throughout the market.

          Overall, bearish inclinations are present despite the surprise bullish
          performance.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    03/25/2024
                                              DETAILS




Hello every-body!
Last week, we left off with the notion that downside was imminent, and everyone should run for
the hills.
Well, I’m not too sure who came up with that idea, but, with a weekly move on $SPY of +2.23%,
and an-equally-impressive-bull-run for $QQQ resulting +2.87% for the week, it would seem this
outlook was partially incorrect1.
So, this week, let’s look at the data to see if we can located a party to blame for our misfortunates,
and in the meanwhile, maybe take a glimpse at how things went wrong, and try to determine if
things are still going according to the overall plan.
Vaminos!
Progression through the heatmaps last week is more unusual than normal – partially in part due
to $SPY’s unusual environment. The whacky movement can be visualized below:




One of the more curious findings to me is that on the 21st, $SPY and $QQQ had opposing views
of volatility for the month ahead. Notice that on the 21st for $SPY, IV increased significantly while
on $QQQ, IV increased quite sign. I thought this might be an interesting finding but – it seems to
just be a hiccup of sorts.
We’ll see next that this hiccup is a part of a slightly larger display of unusual market-behavior. To
see this, let’s observe a graph of LDPM-Vol, IV-30, and Price.




1
    Mainly in the direction aspect.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           03/25/2024
With $QQQ as an example, we can see the overall unusual trend: concurrent increases in price, IV,
and LDPM-Vol. This concurrent increase in IV and LDPM-Vol suggests decreasing liquidity as
volatility increases.
Curiously, this is occurring during spot-up, and, an additional point of curiosity is that it is
occurring with some duration. That is to say, most episode of spot-up, vol-up are usually relatively
short-lived and typically represent an “eager bid” munching up the ask. This episode, however, is
quite different as it is quite prolonged!
For instance, since about Mid-December, IV-30 has risen about 20% and LDPM-Vol is up 67%
during the same period. During said period, $QQQ has risen about 25%. The meaning? For right
now – not much without an unreasonable amount of hand-waving. But perhaps keeping an eye
out for changes in this pattern may be fruitful in the future.
So, with our weekly interruption in profits reviewed, let’s take a peek at the current data.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          03/25/2024
Inturruptions intrurrupting interims

Starting with VoEx, it would appear there is already evidence to suggest this perturbance was
disruptive.




$SPY experienced a VoEx Spike in the later-half of the week, causing VoEx-trend to re-evaluate
past contemplations and came to the decision that VoEx-Divergence may not be appropriate.
This, however, doesn’t nullify the previous data interpretations and trends for me; especially given
$QQQ’s persistence in its Divergence plans (which, it should be noted, is admittedly delayed
somewhat).
Moving slightly ahead of schedule to neo-VoEx, we see this week’s activity was less worrying for
resumed bullish performed, as the VoEx Spike didn’t breech the “Stability” zone, suggestive that
it does not herald future price appreciatory outlooks:



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         03/25/2024
An even more bearish view is gleaned from $QQQ whereby VoEx is now within the propagation
Zone, and the recent VoEx excitement did little to move VoEx-daily:




Overall, the data are messy and that is usually a sign of a messy market. Although $SPY’s VoEx
is suggestive of a potential BUPO, until this is affirmed with $QQQ or with neo-VoEx, the data
suggest downside is still the most likely outcome.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    03/25/2024
From VoEx to the Hedging Environments, we can see the week has left $SPY in a unfortunate
state (once more) with diffuse selling pressure located throughout, while blessing $QQQ with a
stable hedging orientation along with purchasing support located $+/IV-.




This configuration gives the Influence Distribution a net-bearish outlook for $SPY (with a
reasonably long right-tail) and gives $QQQ a pretty predominantly bearish outlook, also with a
reasonable tail, also right.
Perhaps this is another greater-than-EPR set-up for $SPY on the downside while $QQQ might
experience some cushion? Time will tell.
Moving from the hedging environments to the environment of hedging, we see a near-zero GTM-
EMA along with negative GTM prints this past week from all with the GTM family:




The effect of this does not seem to have been witnessed by the market yet, since the market
experienced a net decrease in gamma squeezes this week of about ~3%. Nothing to write home
about, perhaps, but definitely not growth.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    03/25/2024
Speaking of growth, it would seem our little buddy-pal-friends are starting to re-awaken from their
hithertofore flaccid state.




With ever-modest growth, it would seem that some action was taken on $SPY and $QQQ
throughout the week to secure profits in the $+ environment, but it would seem the week’s (and
beyond, as seen above) continued growth in IV is tempering any vivacious displays of
anticipation.

So, for now, this reads as luke-warm without sufficient gumption for me to seriously consider the
combined movement of $+/IV- for the week ahead.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        03/25/2024
So, in total, we have a messy market:
   -     VoEx on $SPY has experienced a VoEx Spike with the recent price appreciation. This has
         disrupted Divergence but still represents instability.
   -     $QQQ’s VoEx is “cooking” as the kids say; with Divergence completed, downside is
         expected.
   -     neoVoEx suggests much the same, as this week prompted neither VoEx nor VoEx-Daily to
         rescind much from the established trajectory.
   -     Hedging Environments offer some resistance to downside for $QQQ but offer diffuse
         selling pressure for $SPY.
   -     Put-selling is present but vastly diminished and not indicative of a full-fledge bullish
         outlook.
   -     All-the-while, the indexes have been experiencing a persistent spot-up, vol-up (or, spot-up,
         liquidity-down, we should say), a sign of diminishing liquidity.

So, in sum, bearish inclinations abound as I wait sitting on my hands until a more moves occur,
or until my hands get numb. Either one.
Happy Trading,


Justin


P.S.: I’ll be disappearing for a week after next Friday. I’ll still check my email once a day for
anything urgent, I still plan on getting next week’s weekly chat out, but I’m afraid I won’t be very
active elsehow!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          03/25/2024
