Liquidity Trading Algorithm
Handbook
V.1.0




Justin Cocco
Deep Dive Stocks
Contents
      03     -      -      -      -      -    -    -     -    -     Introduction
      04     -      -      -      -      -    -    -     -    -     -   Features
      11     -      -      -      -      -    -    -     -    -     -   Settings
      18     -      -      -      -      -    -     -    -     -    Backtesting
      20     -      -      -      -      - Connecting LTA with External Accounts
      22     -      -      -       -     -    -     - Frequently Asked Questions




Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                         2
Introduction
The Liquidity Trading Algorithm (LTA) is a customizable algorithm designed to measure and
respond to changes in liquidity, as calculated via the Liquidity Dependent Price Movement (LDPM)
and Liquidity Dependent Price Stability (LDPS) algorithms. LTA is designed to provide real-time
estimations as to the actionability and practicality regarding these algorithms.
Since LTA is based on LDPM and LDPS, it can be applied to any underlying on which LDPM or
LDPS can be calculated, this includes most stocks, futures, and cryptocurrencies on most
timeframes. In the following guide, the settings and customizations available to you will be
detailed so that you can start your journey with LTA.
First, a review of LTA’s features will give overviews to LTA’s unique features such as adjusting the
Assessment Style, Enabling / Disabling Additional Monitoring Systems, and more. After a review
of the features, a comprehensive review of the main settings is given. From there, a quick review
of backtesting and some key points to keep in mind to ensure the backtest is conﬁgured
appropriately. After the review on backtesting, a quick look at connecting LTA to external accounts
follows, and ﬁnally terminating in a Frequently Asked Questions section.
Be sure to read through and if at any point, if there is anything I can help clarify more, please do
not hesitate to reach out at Justin@DeepDiveStocks.com.




Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                            3
Features
There are several unique features to LTA that are worth mentioning and describing in more detail.
   -   Assessment Style
   -   Additional Monitoring Systems
   -   Position Sizing
   -   Data Table Information – Position Information
   -   Data Table Information – Strategy Performance Information
   -   Text Output

Feature – Assessment Style
LTA's assessment style determines how LTA collects and responds to changing data. In traditional
terms, this is akin to (but not quite exactly the same as) the sensitivity versus speciﬁcity spectrum,
whereby on one end (the sensitive end), an algorithm responds to changes in data in a reactive
manner (which tends to lower its speciﬁcity, or how often it is correct in its indications), and on
the other end, the opposite one, the algorithm forsakes quick changes for longevity of outlook.
While this analogy is in part true, it is not a full view of the underlying mechanisms affected by
changing the assessment style augments. A better analogy would be that the sensitive end of the
spectrum (`Aggressive`) is in a state such that the algorithm wants to changing its outlooks (i.e.:
if LTA is bullish then it assumes the current candle will end bearish), and as such, with changes in
data, the algorithm has to be convinced as to why that is not a good idea to change outlooks,
whereas the more speciﬁc states (`Conservative`, `Diamond`) must be convinced that their view
is no longer valid and that it should be changed.
This means the `Aggressive` and the `Diamond` settings fundamentally differ not just in their
data collection, but also in the data processing such that the `Aggressive` decision tree has to
be convinced that the data is the same (as its default is that it has changed),
and the `Diamond` decision tree has to be convinced that the data is not the same, and as such,
the outlook need changed.
`Balanced` lies in the middle of this balance, attempting to balance being open to new ideas while
not removing the wisdom of the past, as it were.
On a scale of most `sensitive` to most `speciﬁc`, it is as follows: `Aggressive`, `Balanced`,
`Conservative`, `Diamond`.
Functionally, these different modes can help in different liquidity environments, as certain
environments are more conducive to an eager approach (such as found near `Aggressive`) or are
more conducive to a more conservative approach, where sudden changes in liquidity are known
to be short-lived and unremarkable (such as many previously identiﬁed bull or bear traps).
For instance, on low interval views, it can often-times be beneﬁcial to keep the algorithm towards
the `Sensitive` end, since on the lower-timeframes, the crosswinds can change quite dramatically;
whereas on the longer intervals, it may be useful to maintain a more `Speciﬁc` algorithm (such as
found near `Diamond` mode) setting since longer intervals typically lend themselves to longer
time-horizons, which themselves typically lend themselves to "weathering the storm", as it were.

LTA's Assessment Style is also supported by the Additional Monitoring Systems which works


Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                              4
to add sensitivity without sacriﬁcing speciﬁcity by enacting a separate monitoring system, as
described below.

Feature – Additional Monitoring System
The Additional Monitoring System (AMS) attempts to add more context to any changes as
measured, such that LTA as a whole will have an expanded view into any rapidly changing liquidity
conditions before these changes manifest in the “traditional” data streams (LDPM and LDPS’s).
The ideal is that this allows for early exits or early entrances to positions "a head of time".
The prototypical use of AMS is to indicate deteriorating conditions such that the current open
position should be closed in abundance of caution, or LTA should be inhibited from entering into
a new position, due to the increased uncertainty.
When a position is exited because of AMS, it is denoted as an `Early Exit` and if a position is
prevented from being entered, the text output will display `AM prevented entry...` to indicate that
conditions are not meeting AMS' additional standards.
The algorithm will wait to make any actions while `AMS` is `active` and will only enter into a new
position once `AMS` has been `deactivated` and overall liquidity conditions are appropriate.

Functionally, the beneﬁts of AMS translate to:
In short, AMS is way of adding an additional level of liquidity monitoring that attempts to
exit positions if conditions look to be deteriorating, and to enter conditions if they look to be
improving. The cost of this additional monitoring, however, is a greater number of trades
indicated, and a lower overall proﬁtability.


 Outcome                      Changes when AMS is toggled on


 Net Profitability            In general, decreases.

 Max Drawdown                 In general, decreases.

 Max Runup                    In general, decreases.

 Return Over Max              In general, increases.
 Drawdown
 Trade Count                  In general, increases.

 Trade Duration               In general, decreases.

 Trade %                      In general, decreases.
 Profitable




Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                           5
Feature – Position Sizing
In addition to the availability to restrict the trade-direction of LTA to either a long-only or short-only
strategy, LTA has additional ﬂexibility with regards to its position sizing, as discussed below.
Position Sizing – Sizing Method
There are two main ways LTA can determine the size of a position. Either via the `Fixed-Share`
choice, or the `Fixed-Percentage` choice, as selected/input in the `Input` tab of the Settings.
- `Fixed-Share` will use the amount indicated in the `Max Sizing Limit` ﬁeld as the position size,
always.
Note: With `Fixed-Share` sizing,         LTA   will   not   check    if   the   balance    is   suﬃcient
prior to signaling an entrance.
- `Fixed-Percentage` will use the percentage amount indicated in the `Portfolio Allotment` ﬁeld as
the percentage of available funds to use when calculating the position size. Additionally, with the
`Fixed-Percentage` choice, you can set the `Max Sizing Limit` if desired, which will ensure that no
position will be entered greater than the amount indicated in the ﬁeld.
Position Sizing - Fractional Share Sizing
If the underlying instrument supports it (typically only cryptocurrencies), share sizing can be
fractionalized. If this is done, the resulting position size is rounded to 4 digits. This means any
position with a size less than `0.00005` will be rounded to `0.0000`
Note: Ensure     that the underlying instrument supports fractional share sizing prior
to initiating.
Position Sizing - Max Sizing Limit
As discussed above, the `Max Sizing Limit ` will determine:
- The position size for every position, if `Sizing Method : Fixed-Share ` is selected, or
- The maximum allowed size, regardless of available capital, if `Sizing Method : Fixed-Percentage`
is utilized.
Note: There is an internal maximum of 100,000 units.

Position Sizing - Initial Capital
Note: There are 2 `Initial Capital` settings; one in LTA's settings and one in the `Properties` tab.
Ensure these two are the same when doing backtesting.
The initial capital ﬁeld will be used to determine the starting balance of the strategy, and
is used to calculate the internal data reporting (the data tables).




Position Sizing - Portfolio Allotment


Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                                  6
You can specify how much of the total available balance should be used when calculating the
share size. The default is 100%.

Feature – Data Table Information : Position Information
The Liquidity Trading Algorithm (LTA) can provide real-time information regarding the current
position, if available. This data table can be toggled on and off in the Settings. The information
provided by the data table is:


 Text                Information


 Position Duration   Displays the position duration in DD:HH:MM format.

 Side                If the position is Long / Short.

 Size                The position size.

 Entry Price         The price the underlying was when the entry order was sent (but not necessarily
 ($)                 sent or accepted)

 Current Price       Displays the current underlying price and the percent-difference between said price
 (% Dif.)            and the entry price.

 Max Profit          Displays the max profit achieved since the position has been opened in both $ and
 ($ / %)             % terms.

 Current PnL         Displays the current PnL of the open position in total in both $ and %-terms.
 ($ / %)


The table can be customized in several ways:
   -    Settings – Position Info Table – Location :               Location
   -    Settings – Position Info Table – Text Size :              Text Size
   -    Settings – Position Info Table – Text Color :             Text Color
   -    Settings – Position Info Table – Background:              Background Color




Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                                     7
Feature – Data Table Information : Strategy Performance Data
The Strategy Performance Data provides real-time updates on the overall strategy performance
and is displayed within a customizable text-output box.
Note: Toggling the Strategy Performance Data text output is controlled via `Settings – Display
Position Data Table`
 Text                   Information


 Initial Equity         Displays the initial equity the algorithm started with.
 ($)
 Current Equity         Displays the total current equity value, including unrealized PnL and position
 ($)                    equity.

 Net Profits            Displays the net, realized profits obtained since inception in both $ and $ terms.
 ($ / %)
 Long / Short / Total   Displays the Long, Short, and Total amount of closed trades.
 Trade Count
 Profitability          Displays the ratio of profitable trades to the total number of trades closed.

 Avg. Profit / Loss     Displays the average amount (in $ and %-terms) of profit or loss per trade of said
 per Trade ($/%)        type, respectively.

 Max Runup              Displays the maximum potential profit achieved from all opened trades.
 ($/%)
 Max Drawdown           Display the maximum potential downside achieved from all opened trades.
 ($/%)
 Return-Over-           Display the ratio of
 Max-Drawdown
                                                     𝑁𝑁𝑁𝑁𝑁𝑁 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅 𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃
                                                                                          𝑥𝑥 100
                                                        𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀 𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷

The table can be customized in several ways:
    -   Settings – Strategy Performance Data – Location :                                Location
    -   Settings – Strategy Performance Data – Text Size :                               Text Size
    -   Settings – Strategy Performance Data – Text Color :                              Text Color
    -   Settings – Strategy Performance Data – Background:                               Background Color




Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                                       8
Feature - Text Output
In addition to the data table, LTA also provides real-time output regarding its performance within
the text output. The text outputs are listed below:
>> Checking conditions ….
This message indicates that LTA has started checking liquidity conditions. This will only occur at
the end of a candle, just prior to the start of the new candle. If no additional text follows the
message, it means there were no changes noted and no actions required.
>> Position entry signaled …
This is the general message indicating that LTS is signaling that conditions are conducive to
opening a new position.
Entry order created for <quantity> @ <price of underlying>
This message indicates that LTA has created an order to enter the underlying at the speciﬁed
price with the speciﬁed quantity.
>> Entry Order Interrupted – Wait Conﬁguration Active – Waiting <count> out of <total>
This output indicates that an entry order was put on hold due to a conﬁgured wait setting. The
number of bars that have been waited are included in the count amount, and the total is the value
set in the settings.
>> New position entry prevented – Trade Side Restriction
This output indicates that the given entry order was prevented from being sent due to the
conﬁgured trade side restrictions.
>> New position < `<amount>` > entered at @ <price>
This output indicates that the order that was created has passed all checks and sent to the
market.
Note: This does not mean that the position has been entered, if the algorithm is connected to a
paper account or any other external account. The message only indicates that per LTA (on
TradingView), the position has been entered.
>> Exit order created for: qty <amount>, proﬁt: <amount $/%>
This message indicates that an exit signal was produced for the given quantity. The output also
lists the proﬁt amount (position for net proﬁts, negative for net losses) in both nominal and
percent terms.
>> Exit Order Interrupted – Wait Conﬁguration Active – Waiting
This indicates that although LTA signaled any open positions should be exited, there is a
conﬁgured `Impose Wait` that is preventing the exit.
>> Position has been Exited … Resetting states and counts …



Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                          9
This message indicates that any open positions have been closed and assures us that the relative
counts and algorithm states have been reset to reﬂect this.
>> Take Proﬁt Activated … sending immediate exit signal …
This message indicates that the take-proﬁt amount has been reached, and the conﬁgured take-
proﬁt has now activated with an immediate exit signal being sent.
>> Stop Loss Activated – sending immediate exit signal …
If the stop-loss is activated, this message will appear. The order will be indicated on the chart as
“Stop-Loss Exit”.
>> Trailing Stop Loss Activated – sending immediate exit signal …
As above, if the trailing-stop loss downside loss threshold is reached, this output will appear as
LTA signals an exit.
>> AM protocol activated … exiting …
This message indicates that the Additional Monitoring System has ﬂagged conditions as
unsuitable for the open position and so an exit signal is sent.
These exits appear on the chart as “Early Exit”.
>> AM protocol prevented entry … waiting …
This indicates that although LTA signaled liquidity is conducive to a new position, the AM system
prevented LTA from opening a new position.
>> AM protocol disabled … entering position ….
This indicates that LTA is no longer being restricted by the AM system and is preparing to enter
into a new position.

Feature – Patches and Updates
Occasionally and when required, LTA will undergo updates. When LTA updates, the patch notes
will indicate if it is a critical update or not. A critical update is one that ﬁxes or patches a core
component of LTA’s behavior or performance.
When a patch is noted as critical it is highly recommended that all running LTA algorithms be
updated. This means re-creating the algorithm and submitting a new alert.
If the update is not a critical update that affects a core component, a notice will go out with the
anticipated update date. It is recommended but not required to update alerts with non-critical
updates as they are usually quality-of-life ﬁxes, but it may be worth re-creating them on the charts
for whatever said ﬁxes are.




Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                            10
Settings
LTA is designed to offer as much ﬂexibility as possible when modeling the navigation through the
markets, and as such, it has a number of important settings and conﬁgurations to review. The
settings listed below are for LTA only and not for TradersPost or other connection conﬁgurations.



Settings -- User Agreement
   -   Important! Mandatory
   -   Options: On / Off
   -   Default: Off
The User Agreement outlines the agreement between the User and Deep Dive Stocks and is a
required parameter before the algorithm will start displaying values. The agreement discusses
your acknowledgement of risk and represents your expressed aﬃrmation to your agreement
thereof.

The Use Agreement reads:
By toggling this setting on [the user agreement], you agree that the LTA Algorithm is for
educational purposes only, and its use is not intended or permitted with any live-account. You
agree that there is no guarantee of proﬁt, ﬁctional or otherwise. You acknowledge the inherent
risk with participating and, or, observing the markets, and you agree that you are solely
responsible for imposing said risk upon yourself. You agree to hold Deep Dive Stocks harmless,
from and against any and all claims, liabilities, losses, damages, costs and expenses, including
attorney’s fees arising out of or related to the use of this or any of Deep Dive Stocks’ algorithms,
data, metrics, tools or any other product or service provided by Deep Dive Stocks. Additionally,
your toggling of this button is acknowledgement that nothing contained herein or produced
herefrom is designed to be investment advice but is merely a mathematical expression of
variously publicly available data within the market.



Settings -- Blank Text Output
   -   Options: On / Off
   -   Default : Off
The starting text box includes a default message which can be toggled off, leaving an empty text
box by selecting this box.
The default message reads:

Hello! Welcome to the Liquidity Trading Algorithm – otherwise known as The Robo! To get started,
be sure to read the User Agreement in the Settings page and then press the agree button to turn
the robot on. Please be sure to read all of the descriptions in the settings to familiarize yourself



Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                           11
with the algorithm’s functionality. If you have any questions at any point, please do not hesitate to
reach out, I can be reached at Justin@DeepDiveStocks.com


Settings -- Backtesting Start Date
   -   Default: 2023-06-01 12:00
The date that the algorithm turns on. Prior to this date, no assessments or actions are taken or
performed. This input can be set to future date values, if desired. The algorithm will perform its
ﬁrst assessment after the close of the candle indicated by the date and time selected.
Note: If using TradingView’s Deep Backtesting functionality ensure that this setting is set
appropriately. LTA will not do anything prior to the date and time set here.



Settings – Assessment Style
   -   Default: Balanced
   -   Options: Aggressive, Balanced, Conservative, Diamond
The Assessment Style is the main conﬁguration for the algorithm as it dictates how it handles its
observations. The settings are designed to balance sensitivity to new change with speciﬁcity
(conﬁdence) of the interpretations. An algorithm can either be sensitive or speciﬁc but rarely both.
In the case of LTA, `both` is best achieved with `Balanced`.
The algorithm will become more sensitive to change (perhaps it is better to think of it as “eager
to change outlooks”) with the `Aggressive` setting and it will be least sensitive (or “less eager”) to
change outlooks (unless the data are speciﬁc ) with the `Diamond` setting.
Note: This setting also affects the Settings – Additional Monitoring Systems.



Settings – Impose Wait Type
   -   Important! Does not affect Stop-Losses, Trailing-Stop-Losses or Take-Proﬁt signals.
   -   Important! Does affect Additional Monitoring Systems.
   -   Default: None
   -   Options: None, Wait, Exit-Wait
LTA assesses and produces output at the end of each candle-interval for which it is toggled on,
and if a position is indicated, the signal to do so occurs at the start of the subsequent candle. If,
however, a delay is desired, it would be imposed here.
If an entry signal is generated while a wait is imposed, the signal is withheld from the market and
a count begins, and each closed candle increases the count by 1. After waiting the speciﬁed
number of candles, the algorithm re-assesses conditions, and, if the original signal is still `valid`,


Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                             12
the signal is set. If conditions changed and the signal is no longer valid for the liquidity condition,
the signal is dropped, and the counts are reset.
The two wait styles are:
   -   Wait
       Important!:Does not affect Stop-Losses, Trailing-Stop-Loses or Take-Proﬁt signals.
       Important!: Does affect Additional Monitoring Systems.
       This will impose a wait on both entry and exit signal generation by the speciﬁed number
       of candles.

   -   Exit-Wait
       Important: Does not affect Stop-Losses, Trailing-Stop-Loses or Take-Proﬁt signals.
       Important!:Does affect Additional Monitoring Systems.
       `Exit-Wait` will not wait to exit a position if the algorithm indicates as such but will wait to
       enter a new position until the speciﬁed number of bars have passed.



Settings – Allowed Trade Directions
   -   Default : Both
   -   Options: Both, Long-Only, Short-Only
The algorithm can have its trade direction restricted, if desired. `Both` will allow LTA to enter into
long and short positions; `Long-Only` will restrict LTA to only entering into long positions, and
`Short-Only` will restrict LTA to enter into short positions.



Settings – Position Sizing Method
   -   Default: Fixed-Share
   -   Options: Fixed-Share, Fixed-Percentage
When calculating size, LTA can either always use a speciﬁed number of equity (be it contracts,
shares, crypto, etc.) or it can calculate the size by the available portfolio amount and the current
underlying price.
   -   Fixed Share
       Important:
              The ﬁxed-size sizing algorithm does not pre-verify if the available funds are present
              before conﬁguring an entry signal.
       Requires: Setting – Max Sizing Limit
       This style of sizing uses the quantity speciﬁed in the Setting – Max Sizing Limit ﬁeld as
       the position size, for every position.


   -   Fixed-Percentage

Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                              13
       Requires: Setting – Portfolio Allotment (%)
       Optional: Setting – Use Fractional Share Sizing
       Optional: Setting – Max Sizing Limit
       The ﬁxed-percentage algorithm will calculate the amount of available funds and take the
       percentage amount speciﬁed in Setting – Portfolio Allotment as the total available funds
       for calculating a new position.

       Note: if Setting – Fractional Share Sizing is off then the resulting decimal is ﬂoored to the
       nearest integer.
       Note: The Setting – Max Sizing Limit will always over-ride either sizing schema.



Settings – Fractional Share Sizing
   -   Important!:
       Ensure that the underlying can support fractional share sizing. This is typically only
       cryptocurrencies.
   -   Requires: Setting – Position Sizing Method : Fixed-Percentage
   -   Default : Off
   -   Options: On, Off
Position sizes are integers unless speciﬁed here, in which case the calculated value is rounded to
4 decimal places.
Note: This means share sizes 0.000049.. and lower will be rounded to 0.



Settings – Max Sizing Limit
   -   Default: 100
   -   Max: 10,000
   -   Min: 0.0001
Speciﬁes the maximum quantity of underlying that can be held. Any sizing attempts that exceed
this value will be re-set to this value.



Settings – Initial Capital
   -   Important!:
       If you are backtesting, ensure you set the `Initial Capital` ﬁeld within the `Properties` tab
       to the same value as within the `Inputs` tab.
   -   Default : $10,000.00
Conﬁgure the initial balance for the algorithm to utilize in its calculations.


Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                           14
Note: If using any backtesting functionality, there is another `Initial Capital` ﬁeld within the
`Properties` tab that will need to be set to the same amount for accurate reporting percentages.




Settings – Portfolio Allotment
   -   Required by: Setting – Position Sizing Method : Fixed Percentage
   -   Default: 100.00%
   -   Max: 100.00%
   -   Min: 1.00%
Conﬁgure the percentage of available capital to utilize when calculating new position sizing.



Settings - Enact Additional Monitoring Systems
   -   Important!:
       The Additional Monitoring System (AMS) signals will be delayed by Setting – Impose Wait
       Type.
   -   Default : Off
   -   Options: On / Off
The additional monitoring system is designed to provide an additional layer of risk management
via the activation of an additional set of measurements which look to measure deteriorating
liquidity conditions.

Settings – Conﬁgure Take Proﬁt
   -   Important!:
       Take proﬁt signals are not affected by Setting – Additional Monitoring System
       Take proﬁt signals are not affected by Setting – Impose Wait Type
   -   Default: Off
   -   Options: On / Off
If selected, then the value supplied in the integer ﬁeld will be set as the proﬁt (in percentage terms)
that the exit signal will be sent at.
Note: The Take-Proﬁt signal does not wait for the end of the candle to output an exit signal but
will be generated said signal when it occurs.



Settings – Conﬁgure Stop Loss
   -   Important!:
       Stop-Loss signals are not affected by Setting – Additional Monitoring Systems

Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                              15
       Stop-Loss signals are not affected by Setting – Impose Wait Type
   -   Default: Off
   -   Options: On / Off
If selected, then the value supplied in the integer ﬁeld will be set as the loss (in percentage terms)
that the exit signal will be sent at.
Note: The Stop-Loss signal does not wait for the end of the candle to output an exit signal but will
generate said signal when it occurs.



Settings – Conﬁgure Trailing-Stop-Loss
   -   Important!:
       TSL signals are not affected by Setting – Additional Monitoring Systems
       TSL signals are not affected by Setting – Impose Wait Type
   -   Default: Off
   -   Options: On / Off
If selected, then a trailing stop loss will be conﬁgured with the supplied Setting – Conﬁgure TSL :
Proﬁt and Setting – Conﬁgure TSL: Limit.

The TSL will activate once the proﬁt-threshold has been reached and it will signal an exit if
subsequent to the proﬁt-threshold being reached, the Setting – Conﬁgure TSL – Limit amount
speciﬁes the percentage of loss (from the max proﬁt reached) to set the exit signal at. If an
amount greater than the percentage speciﬁed is loss (from the proﬁts), the exit signal is sent.
Setting – Conﬁgure Trailing-Stop-Loss : Proﬁt
The proﬁt amount is the percentage of proﬁt the position need to obtain prior to activating the
downside monitoring. If the position never reaches or exceeds the percentage of proﬁt speciﬁed,
then the TSL never activates.
Setting – Conﬁgure Trailing-Stop-Loss : Limit
Once the proﬁt-threshold is reached, the Setting – Conﬁgure Trailing-Stop-Loss : Limit amount
speciﬁes the percentage of loss threshold for downside. If this threshold is reached, then the
position is exited.

Settings – Display Position Data Table
   -   Default: On
   -   Options: On / Off
   -   Required by: Position Info Table – Placement
   -   Required by: Position Info Table – Text Size
   -   Required by: Position Info Table – Text Color
   -   Required by: Position Info Table – BG Color
   -   Required by: Text Console – Placement

Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                             16
   -   Required by: Text Console – Text Size
   -   Required by: Text Console – Text Color
   -   Required by: Text Console – Background Color
Determines if the data table displaying the current position information is displayed or not. Details
about the information included in the table is found in Features – Position Information.
This also controls the `Strategy Performance Data` output.




Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                            17
Backtesting
Back-testing with the Liquidity-Trading Algorithm (LTA) is straightforward but there are a few
items to keep in mind to ensure you are achieving the clearest view possible. This section will go
over a few of those key items as well as discuss potential troubleshooting that may arise.

Standard Conﬁguration
When conﬁguring LTA for your backtest, ensure that the initial capital matches on both the `Inputs`
page of the settings and within the `Properties Page`.
Note: There are additional settings within the `Properties Page` that are discussed within the
`Additional Settings` section. For a standard backtest, it is not recommended to change any other
settings.

Once LTA is conﬁgured and the initial balances match, toggling the `User Agreement` will cause
the algorithm to automatically run from the date you selected in the `Backtesting Start Date`.

Deep Backtesting
If you are using TradingView’s Deep Backtesting feature, then you need to ensure that the
`Backtesting Start Date` matches the Start Date selected for the Deep Backtesting. LTA will only
analyze and trade once its internal `Backtesting Start Date` has been met.

Standard Output
In addition to LTA’s outputs, TradingView offers several key metrics associated with backtesting
to monitor. These are found within the `Overview`, `Performance Summary`, `List of Trades` and
`Properties` Tab.
Within the `Performance Summary` tab, common metrics including the Sharpe Ratio and Sortino
Ratios are calculated and provided by TradingView.

Troubleshooting
Not all backtesting is created equal, and so here are a list of common issues and (hopefully) their
corresponding solutions:




Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                          18
 Issue                  Solution / Steps


 Share Limit            This means the backtest has exceeded its allotted amount of trades
 Exceeded               within the trading period (9,000). There are several ways to solve this,
                        depending on the desired alteration:

                        Increase the interval: Increasing the interval will decrease the effective
                        time-span and thus reduce the total amount of trades. This will likely
                        have a high impact on changing performance.

                        Adjust the Assessment Style: If LTA is too aggressive, it may alternate
                        too often between outlooks. Consider adjusting the assessment style
                        to minimize such adjustments, if possible (typically by moving more
                        conservative).

                        Invoke Trade Side Restriction: Consider restricting LTA to only-long or
                        only-short to reduce trade amounts.

                        Remove Additional Monitoring: The AM-system often will cause more
                        trades to be entered (and thus exited). If the AM-system is on, consider
                        turning it off.

                        This can happen for a variety of reasons. Check that:
 The strategy did not
 produce any                -   LTA isn’t already in a position;
 trades during the
 specified period.          -   Available balance is sufficient for the selected sizing settings;

                            -   the selected trade-sizing method is appropriate;

                            -   the `Backtesting Start Date` has been met; and that

                            -   there is no trade-restriction in place.

                        If none of these settings seem to be inhibiting the algorithm, check the
                        text output. If it does show activity, investigate to see if LTA is indicating
                        why there have been no positions.

                        If it does not show any activity, then ensure that you have selected the
                        User Agreement and are configuring the correct LTA (i.e.: that there are
                        not multiple LTAs on your chart).




Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                              19
Connecting LTA with External Accounts
LTA can be conﬁgured and set up to communicate with external APIs. In this section, we will go
over the general method by with LTA can communicate with external APIs, and then take a
closer approach at a familiar service TradersPost 1.
However, before we do that, there are some very important concepts to keep in mind when
doing so when connecting LTA to an external system:

Keep in mind:
      -    Once an alert is created, TradingView copies the conﬁgurations you have set, and sends
           them to TradingView’s servers as a copy. This means once you create an alert, any change
           you make to LTA requires that you create a new alert.
      -    Once you create an Alert, since it exists on TradingView’s servers, it is worth saving the
           chart so that you can easily reference the same algorithm that is running. Otherwise, you’ll
           have to manually re-create the chart each time you want to check on the robot.
      -    Ensure that your JSON message is correct.
      -    Ensure that your API URL is correct.
      -    DO NOT share your API URL with anyone. Deep Dive Stocks will never ask you for it ever.
      -    Communication is one-way. LTA can communicate externally but it cannot receive any
           messages back, and thus, LTA cannot conﬁrm any information with any external accounts.

General Method
In general, once a Strategy has been loaded and you are ready to have LTA start sending
commands, the ﬁrst step is to `Make an Alert`. Once pressed, you will see a box with settings.
There are 2 important settings that must be conﬁgured in order for LTA to communicate with the
external world.

General Method – JSON message
Ensure the JSON message in the `Message` text input is a valid input for your receiving service
or end-point. For TradersPost, the following JSON works:
                                                                {

                                                     “ticker” : “{{ticker}}”,

                                             “action”: “{{strategy.order.action}}”,

                                           “quantity”:”{{strategy.order.contracts}}”,

                                                      “price”:”{{close}}”,

                                                     “time”:”{{timenow}}”

                                                                }

If there are additional arguments required, visit the TradingView PineScript manual (here).



1
    No aﬃliation, it’s just the service I use so I’m familiar with its settings.

Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                              20
General Method – Webhook URL
The Webhook URL is the API end-point of your recipient service. This is a speciﬁc URL for your
speciﬁc algorithm and should not be shared with anyone.
                ! Anyone with that URL will be able to trade the associated account !
In combination, the JSON is the command LTA sends to the associated webhook URL. Continuing
on, a closer look at speciﬁc settings will be explored with the TradersPost service.

TradersPost Conﬁgurations
TradersPost is a service that acts as a mediator between LTA and a Broker. TradersPost helps
translate and conﬁgure the relevant JSON data with convenience so that we don’t have to. In
addition to this, TradersPost has additional settings and conﬁgurations that can alter how LTA
behaves.

TradersPost can be accessed here: https://app.traderspost.io/
The overall steps for connecting LTA with TradersPost are as follows:
1 – Create a Strategy to match the underlying you have selected in TradingView
2 – Create a Subscription. For the subscription, DDS uses but doesn’t necessarily recommend in
any fashion, the following settings:
       2.a—     Use Trade Signals
                This is a global switch to ensure TradersPost conveys the signals only from LTA.

       2.b—     Auto Submit selected (this requires paid account).
                Otherwise, you will have to manually approve all of the trades.
       2.c --   Disable Side Swapping
                This means that exit orders are exit orders, and entry orders are entry orders and
                they won’t mix with each other.
       2.d --   Ensure the `Connected Broker` is conﬁgured (this requires connecting your broker
                to TradersPost if desired).
The remaining conﬁgurations and settings can be set-up as desired (Alerts, Cancel settings, etc.).
Just remember that LTA will not be “aware” of any of TradersPost’s activities. This means that if
TradersPost cancels an entry, for instance, LTA will not be alerted and may still consider the
algorithm as being in said position.




Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                         21
Frequently Asked Questions
How can I get ahold of you?
          I can be contacted at Justin@DeepDiveStocks.com with any questions / concerns /
          comments, or if you just want to say hi!

What type of securities can LTA operate on?
        LTA can operate on any equity that LDPM and LDPS can be calculated on. This includes,
        standard equities, futures, cryptocurrencies and technically forex2.

Can I have multiple LTA algorithms running simultaneously?
       Yes – you can create additional running LTA algorithms by creating additional Alerts.

Can I turn the algorithm on and off?
       Yup! Once the alert is created, in the Alerts pane, you can turn the Algorithm on or off,
       depending, as it suits.

Can I use fractional share sizing on all equities?
       Usually, no. TradingView usually restricts fraction share sizing to cryptocurrencies, despite
       services offering fractional equity sizing (i.e.: Robinhood).

Can I “tell” the algorithm to do anything?
       No – once LTA is set, it cannot accept any commands. The only way to alter LTA’s behavior
       is to turn it off or to create a new version of the algorithm.

Does LTA need to be integrated with an external service?
       No – you don’t need any external services in order to utilize LTA.

Does anyone have access to LTA’s trades, logs or data besides me?
       Deep Dive Stocks does not collect nor does Deep Dive Stocks have the ability to collect any
       information or data regarding LTA’s use by other users. However, Deep Dive Stocks can not
       speak on behalf of TradingView or any external services with regards to monitoring,
       collecting, or analyzing LTA’s behavior.

What kind of TradingView account do I need?
       A free account is suﬃcient for LTA – however, you may ﬁnd the paid features to be
       worthwhile.




2
    No testing has been done on LTA and forex but LDPM and LDPS both work and so LTA should as well.

Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                                 22
Can I place LTA, LDPM and LDPS on the same chart?
    Yup! The only thing preventing multiple applications of indicators and/or multiple
    applications of the same indicator is your TradingView subscription.

Can multiple LTA’s use the same paper account?
    Yes but there are a few caveats to keep in mind if connecting multiple LTAs (multiple alerts)
    to the same API URL (same account):
    1) LTA is conﬁgured to exit all positions whenever an exit signal is sent.
    2) TA cannot receive communication from external sources, and as such, each LTA will be
       unaware of the other LTAs using the same account. Balance management between the
       three will have to be manually conﬁgured by you.

I think I found a bug! What do I do?
    Deﬁnitely let me know! If you can, please do the following:
       1) Go to the Settings for LTA that caused the error or suspected bug,
       2) Select “Debug”
       3) Take a screen shot of the Debug table
       4) Email Support@DeepDiveStocks.com and include the screenshot of the Debug table
          and a short description about the error or bug.
    That’s all! I’ll get back to you when I receive the report!

Should the chart be set to Regular Trading Hours or Electronic Trading
Hours?
    Typically the chart set to `Electronic Trading Hours` provides the “truest” showing of liquidity
    as time occurs, and this may be beneﬁcial in any underlying for which you want to monitor
    the pre-, and post-market moves. If, however, you are not interested in those views, and would
    prefer LTA group the pre-, and post-market be included in the market-hours data (the ﬁrst
    candle), then `Regular Trading Hours` is more appropriate.

I’m having some trouble with TradersPost, is there more information
somewhere?
    Yup! TradersPost has a lot of resources that are ready for the referencing. You can ﬁnd them
    here: https://docs.traderspost.io/docs




Liquidity Trading Algorithm – Handbook                                                           23
