                                   Weekly Chat 06/10/2024


                                          Main Points


    -    VoEx on $SPY and $QQQ are not in the Propagation Zone.
    -   Hedging environment is supportive but with diminished support in $-/IV+.
    -   DLP behavior is raising but still near-zero.
    -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data show growth rates leveling out and GTM is moving
        into positive territory.
    -   Overall – bullish outlook.

                                          SUMMARY



          This week is met with VoEx not within $SPY and $QQQ’s Propagation
          Zone, this doesn’t bring with it bearish outlooks, ergo, we can settle on
          bullish outlooks per VoEx.

          Gamma Hedging Environments show a conducive environment for $+.
          The only concern presented here against bullish outlooks is the
          diminished purchasing support if IV raises significantly.

          Put-selling is gradually rising but no definitive show-of-force from the put-
          sellers.

          MWGS data show a positive but flat-lining growth-rate while GTM moves
          into positive territory – suggestive that the recent short gamma push has
          run its course through the market, with minimal affect.

          Overall, bullish outlooks.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        06/10/2024
                                             DETAILS




Hello everyone!


Last week started off with cautionary tales of impending downside, and, as luck would have it,
$SPY moved +1.26% and $QQQ moved 2.72%! So, no downside for us.
Of note is the difference in movements between $SPY and $QQQ, when compared to the market’s
expectations (per EPR); $SPY’s T+5 EPR from last Friday was ±1.28%, and $QQQ’s ±1.68%. In
doing the standard standardization-scheme we’ve seen before, we can look at the price
movements normalized against their EPRs – or, against how much the market was expecting
                           1.26                2.72
things to move ( For $SPY: 1.28, and for $QQQ: 1.68). Doing so, we get ~1.00 for $SPY and 1.62 for
$QQQ.
So, we see that even when we normalize against the market’s own pricing (via EPR), it looks as
though $QQQ moved 62% more than “was priced in”. In essence, it moved “more than it should
have” (per the market; or in market speak: realized volatility [RV] > implied volatility [IV]).
Again, if we look for a source of this difference, our investigations reach an initial suspect with
acumen: the hedging environments.




Last week, the pathway to bullish weekly performance would be paved ”…should IV drop even
more …” and it would seem that IV did drop (for $QQQ at least), pushing it across the threshold
and up into purchasing support on the 5th, catapulting things upwards (and it seems, dragging
$SPY with it some).
Besides the superficial neat-ness, there’s two take-aways here that are worth highlighting:
1 – The market ingested a fair amount of selling pressure and still managed to “break through”.
2 – The market stalled after the “break through”.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        06/10/2024
So, it would seem our job this week is to try to discern which of these two mental notes has the
greatest weight: should we rejoice that the market ingested such selling pressure and survived to
tell the tale; or, should there be a slight pause due to the “break through” stalling once the
purchasing support began to minimize (the market stalled after the 5th). Let’s try to find out!
Finding out
Before I get carried away and forget we look at the aforementioned question, let’s take a
moment to see how the rest of the data look. Starting as usual with VoEx:




In pursuit of not over-complicating things, let’s stick to the superficial: VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ
are not in the Propagation Zone. Hence: not downside is expected.
Convenience!
(Notes for the completionist: VoEx-trend on $QQQ is concerning for Divergence, and technically
things aren’t BUPO [of the bullish variety] yet, so there is at least one identifiable source of
caution).
Neo-VoEx agrees: everything is not in the Propagation Zone!




Easy-peasy.
Moving onwards with pretty robust bullish ideologies, let’s check out the hedging environments:



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       06/10/2024
Supportive! Local and diffuse purchasing support is noted – but so too is the lack of this
robustness in the event of spot-down, IV-up.

Notwithstanding this observable kink-in-the-armor, the influence distributions are neutral-to-
bullish, and, so too am I.
Is anyone else bullish?




Maybe?
There seems to be some activity brewing in the put-selling-land - perhaps in a day or two their
resolve may enthuse more.
For now, we leave with a neutral impression, and a promise to check back on our friends
throughout the week.

Lastly, let’s look at the gamma flows for the market. Last week we left off with GTM printing pretty
negative prints, which extended our downside expectations into the “medium” time horizon. Are
conditions the same?




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         06/10/2024
Not at all it seems!
Growth-rates have stalled out at slight-above-zero, and despite the negative GTM prints preceding
a ~50% increase in gamma squeezes, the translation of this growth to price-action / market-
influence has been minimal.

Now, it seems GTM is moving northward into positive territory, and in conjunction with the growth-
rate stalling, I think this short push of short-gamma looks to have dwindled.
So, all-in-all, reasonably bullish data prints all around. This comes with a side of “not what we
were expecting a week ago” which will always hang in the air like a spectre haunting our past
selves but – what can one do; the data do as the data do.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       06/10/2024
Now, let’s chat about the behind-the-scenes goin’-on’s here at DDS.

Goin’ on’s
I am in the process of updating the Data Page on the Dashboard. But, to do this, I need to expand
data processing into new territory. And, as much as I try to work with the existing architecture I
keep running into areas of potential improvement.
And, after encountering quite a several amount of these throughout the past few weeks, I’ve
decided to simply re-work a lot of the key systems from scratch.
The goal is that a renewed foundation will allow for greater speed, efficiency, and, ultimately,
capability for data processing. This, then, will allow the Data Page to be drastically improved!


That’s the goal at-least.


So, if it seems quiet from my end over here, its only because I’m groveling in the dusty code-
basement of DDS and the walls are too thick to hear my sobs jubilations.
Hopefully I’ll have a more concrete update for you guys shortly!


Happy Trading –


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       06/10/2024
