                                 Weekly Chat 2026-03-02


                                       Main Points



       -   VoEx remains in the Propagation Zone for $SPY and $QQQ.
       -   Gamma-Hedging heatmaps demonstrate a local gamma-squeeze configuration
           with local purchasing support spot-up and selling pressure spot-donw.
       -   Gamma-squeeze data showcase little change.
       -   LS&T data demonstrate bearish liquidity and growing profit-taker presence on all
           intervals with the exception of the bullish liquidity persisting on the weekly.



                                        SUMMARY



           Last week there was concern for a bounce which was delivered,
           along with the resulting downside.

           This week, the data speak more towards downside than that of
           promoting or supporting a bounce.

           VoEx remains in the P.Z. with the exception of $QQQ’s VoEx-daily
           which appears to be lagging behind $SPY’s (in that it should shortly
           return to the P.Z. here shortly).

           The hedging heatmaps demonstrate local purchasing support as a
           part of an overall local gamma-squeeze. This does technically pave
           the way towards supporting $+ but there are some limitations on
           just how much IV can be reduced on both indexes before the
           purchasing support converts to selling pressure.

           LS & T data demonstrate bearish liquidity and encroaching profit
           takers on all timeframes except for the weekly, which is persisting
           in its bullish showing.

           The expectations thusly are continued turbulence with downside
           resolution with identifiable supports 2% and 5% down, as seen on
           the weekly with LT4 and LT7, respectively.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat        for the week of             2026-02-23 to 2026-02-27
                                            DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we had the idea that the market might experience a bounce but the overall resolution
is still towards the downside. This week appears to have reäffirmed our suspicions, with $SPY
moving northward in the early-part of the week of 0.5% while $QQQ moved 1.32%, only to see
$SPY undergo a end-of-week move down 1.74% to a net move of -0.50% while $QQQ’s fall from
grace amounted to 1.5% to the negative, ending the week for $QQQ with a -0.25%.
We can visualize these moves in the heatmaps below:




Up and down!
This week, our goal is thusly simple: shall we continue downwards or are the tides changing ?
Let’s see if we can find out!

Failure is the fear of those who only see one path forward –
Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




Some conflicting data!

Starting with the similarities, we find VoEx is in the Propagation Zone for both $SPY and $QQQ
and both VoExes appear to be nudging upwards.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of             2026-02-23 to 2026-02-27
Ending with the differences, we find a recent VoEx-daily spike on $SPY has left VoEx-daily within
the Propagation Zone, suggesting that the recent flatish-to-bullish price performance was apart
of a bull-trap, which has now “trapped”, while $QQQ’s VoEx-daily appears to be either in the midst
of a VoEx-daily spike (i.e.: $QQQ is lagging behind $SPY) or VoEx-daily has started a newfound
journey into the Bullish zone, which would suggest a near-term bulltrap is forming.
Overall, this appears to be bearish as I am inclined to think $SPY is the “front-runner” here, rather
than $QQQ setting a new precedence. This suggests that downside is expected in the near (per
VoEx-daily) and the long-term (due to VoEx) as the most prominent expectation. But – in the spirit
of due-diligence, let’s add to the pile $QQQ’s VoEx-daily’s viewpoint until it returns to the
Propagation Zone, and hope the gamma-hedging heatmaps can provide some additional context:




These are quite supportive hedging-heatmaps depending on your persuasion.

If you like purchasing support with regards to the pursuit of a bullish futures, then the heatmaps
are quite supportive.
If you do not like gamma-squeeze environments (likely due to their propensity to induce $− ), then
these environments are likely somewhat disconcerting.
In the immediate, there is indeed purchasing support, notwithstanding both $SPY and $QQQ
present with the problem of needing more $+ than 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − [lest purchasing support give way to selling
pressure]. Thus, a close eye on IV will likely be key, with a high probability of selling pressure
entering the market for both $SPY and $QQQ later in the week.

Moving onwards to the gamma-squeeze data [not shown], not much has changed! GS counts
have largely remained the same (831 last week vs. 845 presently) and the predictive data still
demonstrating a slight lean towards a future packed slightly-more-full with gamma squeezes than
present.
This continues to supply longer-term bearish outlooks to the market but admittedly not quite as
bearish as originally expected.
Moving onwards, let’s check on the LS&T data:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2026-02-23 to 2026-02-27
Of note, we have bearish liquidity on all time intervals except for the weekly!
On the 90-minute, we find sufficient profit-takers (LT1, 2, 3 & 4) pushing spot down onto LT6 for
support.

On the 144-minute, we find a similar scene but with spot already having fallen below LT6.
On the 987-minute, we find bearish liquidity and the second stage of a aggressive bid cascade
(the first stage being the aggressive bid entering, and the second being the “wave”, which
represents the profit-takers entering). Of particular note is that the aggressive bid did little to
move spot back above LT7 for support, and although it did manage to get spot above LT5, we can
see this is already being brought into reconsideration. Since the aggressive bid did little to bring
more support into the picture, there is concern that the incoming wave (i.e.: profit-takers; you can
see this starting with LT1 already) will be sufficiently impactful to move spot below LT5 once-
more, thus removing the only current floor noted on this view.
The only reprieve from an almost wholly downside-ridden view is the weekly which shows bullish
liquidity holding on. Nonetheless, the signs here are a bit wonky as well, namely given the
encroaching presence of LT1, 2 & 3. Growing weakness but not definitely bearish just yet.
Overall, this gives the impression that LT4 & 6 are likely to be tested here shortly on the weekly –
at $6.5k and $6.2k respectively (-2%, -5%, respectively).
Thus, it appears that although the field is fertile for a bounce, the winds are not in favor: the near-
term gamma-squeeze orientation from the heatmaps leans towards bearish resolutions, VoEx’s



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2026-02-23 to 2026-02-27
location as well as LS&T’s bearish presentations both are providing substantial headwinds that
are likely supraworthy of not being ignored.
Downside expectations renewed –


Happy Trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat         for the week of              2026-02-23 to 2026-02-27
