                                  Weekly Chat 2025-02-10


                                        Main Points



    -   VoEx remains within the Propagation Zone and VoEx-daily for both indexes has
        retracted back into the neutral zone.
    -   Gamma Hedging Heatmaps show immediate and local selling pressure on $QQQ with
        a thinly populated hedging environment on $SPY.
    -   Put-selling remains below zero.
    -   MWGS data showcase a resurgence of gamma squeezes.
    -   LDPM/S suggest a liquidity vacuum with bearish liquidity is present on #ES.
    -   Overall, prudency suggests bracing for continued downside.



                                         SUMMARY



          Last weeks neutral movement was met with an increase in GS’ and VoEx
          deepening within the Propagation Zone. This, in turn, deepens the bearish
          outlooks ahead.

          VoEx was briefly rising into stability but this ascent has halted for both
          $SPY and $QQQ. Put-selling remains at-zero. Gamma squeezes are
          increasing as suggested by prior conversations regarding gamma
          dynamics. LDPM and LDPS suggest an ABC occurred on ES without price
          appreciation and now the cascade of eager ask looks to be entering (as is
          the normal follow-up behavior to an ABC), along with LDPS painting the
          daily ES red.

          Overall, downside looks to be neigh and so our sights as set as such.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     02/10/2025
                                              DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with continued bearish expectations, and despite the early-part of the week
testing boundaries with us, this was the predominant movement overall (a hearty thanks to the
last-minute sell-off as the weekend approached!). In terms of numbers, $SPY found itself set back
-0.17%, while $QQQ moved +0.12%.

We can see these moves in the heatmaps below:




$SPY performed a bit of a pretzel maneuver for us this week, while $QQQ resisted the initial selling
pressure to be aided up into gamma neutrality, from which it fell back to near its origins.
A languish and weak market, it would appear.
Thus, our work before us is quite clear: doth conditions persist in the bearish fashion or are things
starting to settle?
Let’s see if we can find out!

Starting as usual with VoEx




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          02/10/2025
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see things have stalled in their pursuits towards stability:




In this, I mean, VoEx itself, which in prior evaluations, in particular on $SPY, had a zeal in its
movements northward – however, with the completion of the VoEx Spike at the end of January, it
would seem VoEx has stalled in its ascent; for $QQQ this stall has manifested thereupon a
reversal of course, bringing VoEx back to its lowest local point.
These observations don’t distract from the take-away, as that remains the same from the week
prior: VoEx within the Propagation Zone indicates downside is the default outlook, but it does
color this week’s instability a bit more1.
Namely, and especially, when looking to see how VoEx responds to price. An old homage from
VoEx was that it would show us where stability lay, for instance, below, we can see that VoEx
“calms down” when the price depreciates and becomes more erratic as the price appreciates:




1
  Back-in-my-day VoEx was exclusively used to describe if the underlying was “stable” or “unstable”, and so, it was
commonplace to say things like “$SPY is becoming unstable” due to VoEx’s presentation, such as a more erratic
VoEx, or VoEx Divergence forming, etc. This is less common now, but essentially instability is indicated by VoEx in
several usual ways (most you are already familiar with): VoEx Spikes, Persistent Elevation within the I.Z. (BUPO of
the Bullish variety), and VoEx within the P.Z., but there are a few more worth keeping in mind: Erratic VoEx (when
its starts oscillating rapidly), and VoEx Coiling. Basically, if VoEx looks like it is having a wild time (and especially if
that is a new finding), then it is safe to assume the underlying is preparing for a wild time. These findings and uses
for VoEx are still valid, but just get discussed less often with LDPM/S/LTA and whatnot also hangin’ about.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                              02/10/2025
This situation would be described as “VoEx is indicating stability is located on the downside”.
From there, the VoEx Theorem of Price tells us “an equity will always move towards stability”; and
so, when an equity is seen to have stability located on the downside, this is the default outlook
(downide).
Why do I bring this up? Who knows. But if I were to guess, it would be something along the lines
of “does it look like the only times VoEx has been extra wiggly is when the prices have been going
up?”, that is to say, is stability located on the downside? Perhaps too soon to tell but something
to keep an eye out in the week ahead!
Moving onwards with our BUPO (of the Bearish variety) outlook intact, we arrive at the Gamma
Hedging Heatmaps:




Well! Quite the familiar sight!



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       02/10/2025
$SPY (left) presents as it did a few weeks ago with diffuse and light purchasing support located
proximally, while $QQQ presents with a pseudo-stable-vanna-unstable gamma hedging heatmap.
One will remember, of course, the last time this was presented to us, and $QQQ moved
extraordinarily on the pre-market session before Monday (2025-01-27).
Before we get too comfortable with jumping to the conclusion that this implies our futures should
be similarly planned, let’s keep in mind that should IV drop substantially on $QQQ, this will
introduce some good purchasing support. The most likely outcome? Probably not – but worth
pointing out nonetheless.
So, with VoEx suggesting things continue to look bearish, and with the hedging environments
showcasing an ominous pairing as before, things do indeed look prudently bearish. Let’s see if
this is shared with our put-selling friends:




Very much so it would seem!


Behavior from the put-sellers is both muted and negative – highly suggestive of minimal plans
for profitability in the [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] direction.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      02/10/2025
Moving onwards to the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data, we see appreciations:

                                                                    The week-over-week growth of gamma
                                                                    squeezes is 13%, with the 10-day
                                                                    growth coming in at 21%. Thus, it would
                                                                    appear that gamma squeezes are
                                                                    indeed growing.

                                                                    This is noteworthy for several reasons:
                                                                    the first is that there was a general
                                                                    growth in gamma squeezes during the
                                                                    week (when the price largely
                                                                    appreciated) – this is counter-intuitive!
                                                                    Especially considering the last time we
                                                                    looked at price appreciation it was with
                                                                    the lens of finding where the long
                                                                    gamma was coming from (Weekly Chat
                                                                    2025-01-13). Now, however, we see
                                                                    price appreciation seems to be met with
                                                                    short gamma being introduced.
                                                                    This is promising for our theory that the
                                                                    gamma-squeeze destruction noted in
                                                                    January was mainly due to the robust
                                                                    price appreciation, rather than market
                                                                    positioning or structural changes
                                                                    (which would therefore give not bullish
                                                                    outlooks but bearish).
The idea was that if this were true, then if price should stagnate, gamma would migrate back “into
position” as expiry would increase the magnitude of the short gamma, which would lower the net
gamma (which was artificially made long via the price appreciations). It would seem this is
panning out! Ideally the growth curve becomes positive but it would seem the market is in position
to see the re-introduction of pre-existing gamma squeezes2.
The take-home for me there is that MWGS looks to be bullish presently, but should our newfound
hypothesis have any weight, an expectation of sudden re-emergence of gamma squeezes should
follow soon; this deluge of gamma squeezes has been associated with future moderate
downsides.

Moving onwards to LDPM and LDPS, we see that ES on the daily has become bearish (Balanced
settings) along with a very strange ABC:



2
  How can we be confident that this change in gamma squeezes isn’t a change in market positioning and whatnot
like before? Just like before! Notice that GTM has been largely neutral – this means that the flow of options in the
market hasn’t really indicated any overly negative gamma working its way to the market. Thus, the negative gamma
must already be there!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                       02/10/2025
There was an aggressive bid cascade but no price appreciation! In fact, the only thing the ABC did
was keep a bearish candle from falling below LDPM-7!
As is normal with ABCs, there’s the Cascading Part that seems to be forming next. In routine
environments, this would take on an appearance such as:




Where the ABC (near the green E) sends the price shooting upwards, followed by the lower-order
LDPMs cascading upwards and downwards. It is usually during the cascade portion of the ABC
that the price stalls and reverses.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       02/10/2025
And thus, therein lies the concern: if there was no appreciation before the cascade, then:

    1) The Aggressive Bid did little to alter the course of events, and
    2) Downside will likely be brutal.
Moving upwards in intervals to the weekly for #ES, we see surprisingly bullish outlooks
(Aggressive LDPS 3):




Worsening liquidity conditions all around:
    1) LDPS is showing flow to the bid,
    2) Low-order LDPMs are positioned as eager asks,
    3) LDPM-5 and price look poised to cross.
Thus, this would suggest movement to $5,400-area if a bearish cross with bearish liquidity is
observed on the weekly interval. In such an event, perhaps thankfully, on the weekly view, this will
be seen as a bear trap.

And so, all things considered, it appears the market is still in quite a rough spot:
    -   VoEx is within the P.Z. still with apparent reduced vigor in changing said location,
    -   Put-selling has remained near-zero,
    -   Gamma-squeezes are doing the thing we waved our hands at the other week, suggesting
        a resurgence of latent gamma squeezes is incoming,
    -   An aggressive bid cascade showed up on #ES without any real effect, and now it appears
        the cascade part of the ABC is forming.




3
  In general I tend to go aggressive or conservative on the longer timeframes and leave Balanced for the lower
timeframes. Totally a personal choice, I have nothing to support it.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                      02/10/2025
With such bearishness, prudency suggests bracing again for downside with a potential target of
$5,400 per LDPM on the Weekly for ES.


Happy Trading!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    02/10/2025
