                                        Weekly Chat 2025-07-14


                                               Main Points



        -   VoEx remains within stability while VoEx-daily remains excluded from both Stability and
            the Propagation Zone.
        -   The Hedging environments are much as before with persistent selling pressure located
            throughout.
        -   The Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data show a flatlined GS amount with some signs
            within the predictive models of growth forthcoming. GTM remains negative.
        -   LDPM/S study of ES showcase near-term turbulence with multiple potential LDPM
            crossovers nearby, while the longer-term still pain a default-bearish picture.
        -   dVoEx studies showcase a tech-centric instability cluster.
        -   VoEx Variance showcases a market predominately within Phase I transition.
        -   Overall, turbulence expected with the current data prints technically still poised towards
            the upside but as evermore, the data suggests a slow coalescence towards bearish
            prints.

                                               SUMMARY

               VoEx sits within Stability which confers an overall bullish state – despite
               its apparent change in course towards VoEx-daily, who resides south of
               stability and just north of the Propagation Zone. This paints a picture of
               turbulence ahead – but one that should be well managed, so long as VoEx
               decides to stay in stability. VoEx-daily entering P.Z. would be a definitive
               move towards the current expected turbulence terminating towards the
               downside.
               The hedging environment eggs this notion on with severe headwinds
               noted on $SPY and $QQQ – much like before, with the only reprieve
               available with spot down, or in $QQQ’s case, with continued IV reduction1
               A quick assessment of LDPM with ES showcases continued mixed signals
               whereby the lower-timeframes (90 and 144) show proximal LDPM support
               for now.
               MWGS data show a flatline in GS counts, as there isn’t much more room
               to go down, GTM continues to print negative values and the predictive
               data has nudged up evermore to positive territory once more. VoEx
               Variance and dVoEx studies showcase a migration towards bearish
               outlooks as well.
               Thus, taken together, prudency continues to brace for downside while the
               data suggest a tenuous, turbulent upside is still a possibility – despite how
               faintly its glow now appears amongst the encroaching darkness.

1
    How low can it go??


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat               for the week of                2025-07-14 to 2025-07-19
 DETAILS


Hello all!
Last week, we left off with a just-so net bullish outlook, tempered with some side-eyeing. This
week, the market seems to have been in similar affect as the net movement for $SPY was -0.07%
while $QQQ moved -0.37% week-over-week. WoW indeed.
We can visualize these moves below in the hedging environments from last week:




The week started out for both with downside – potentially spurred on or augmented by the
availing headwinds we noted just prior to the week’s start. Nothing too remarkable!
This suggests for us then, that the question laid before us for contemplation this week seems to
be clear: is it unremarkable in that its simply unremarkable or est-ce que its being unremarkable
when it should have been remarkable but remained unremarkable is, in fact, quite remarkable?
Difficult to say.

But for now, let’s check on the data and then rant about database design!
Wie sollte die Zeit verrinnen, wenn unser Morgen ausbleibt?
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-07-14 to 2025-07-19
It would appear that VoEx-daily has established a downwards general trend for both $SPY and
$QQQ – but this isn’t wholly bearish in-and-of-itself, but it does often indicate incoming weakness,
in particular if VoEx itself exits stability.
To this affect, we can see that for both $SPY and $QQQ, VoEx itself is still within stability – a
placement which requires us to adopt a medium-to-longer-term bullish outlook, despite VoEx-
daily’s side-eye-winking to the opposite. The take away here is: incoming turbulence but it might
be too soon to expect any significant downside.
For the upcoming turbulence, let’s check out how the hedging environment is set to influence
conditions ahead:




Selling pressure abound! We can see $QQQ has its ledge-of-purchasing support located in the
[$~, 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] - which imagination suggests might set the destination for IV throughout the week.

Let’s move right along to the MWGS, which showcases largely the same. A small growth noted
week-over-week but nothing terribly exciting. One would
note, though, that GTM is still pretty negative! This
suggests that despite it all – the incoming flow of gamma
to the market is still negative!

In checking with our predictive models, we see that the
growth-curve is also creeping up! Despite this, the data
are still negative from the predictive MWGS data.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-07-14 to 2025-07-19
Thus, taken together the MWGS data seem to suggest the market is in a purgatory state of sorts:
there isn’t much room for the gamma squeezes to go down (and thus, there exists little room to
derive a bullish outlook!) but we still (for now) see the predictive models producing negative
values (which forestall a bearish outlook!).
Moving onwards, let’s check out the LDPM/S environment for ES and VX:




On the 90-minute (top-left) we see LDPM-L5 following price through LDPM-L6 acting as a point
of resistance while spot becomes entrapped between it and LDPM-L7. LDPS is showing an eager
bid flowing to ask, which LDPM-L5 seems to be well poised to absorb. This suggests that if/when
the eager bid dissipates (which is likely to occur before an organic ask) then bearish liquidity
might return, and usher downside through LDPM-L7.
Moving upwards to the 144-minute, we see an aggressive ask meeting an organic bid at LDPM-
L6. With similar thinking as above but different context, we can see that LL-Amount and Flow are
positive (yet declining) and so LDPM-L6 is expected to hold reasonably well for now. The concern
is that the aggressive ask seems to be not far removed from an organic ask (as per LDPM-L5)
which has maintained close proximity since starting its position as the proximal resistance for
spot around the 4th of this month.
Zooming out more, we encounter the 987-minute in the midsts of what appears to be the start of
an Aggressive Ask Cascade (where all the LDPMs rapidly point upwards in unison). This seems
to have pushed spot below the support at LDPM-L5 but Liquidity Levels-Amount and Flow are still
positive for now, so I would expect some of the “underside support” LDPM is known to provide
from time-to-time (where price doesn’t re-cross over the recently-crossed LDPM but sort of clings
to its underside) until Amount and Flow are negative. This coincidences reasonably well with the
idea of price-channel confinement a-la LDPM seen in the 90 and 144-minute views.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of               2025-07-14 to 2025-07-19
Moving finally upwards, we see on the Weekly view, the eternal beartrap with LDPM-L5 continuing
in its refusal to allow a crossover to occur. LDPS is still showcasing conditions as bearish and
the Liquidity Level Amount and Flow rates are both negative. This still paints quite the bearish
picture ahead.
Taken together, the notion of near-term turbulence without a clear direction seems reasonable,
and with conditions looking ominous, the risk for ultimate resolution to be aimed at downside
seems more probable than towards the upside.
We’ll skip the VX assessment this week, and in its stead, let’s take a look at the change in VoEx
data. You’ll remember this is a tool we bust out to look at the change in VoEx across several
different indexes and then map the historical-future change in price, then we take our current data
and plot that. The only change from the previous versions of this is that I switched it to VoEx-daily
and zoomed a bit to get a better view of where things stood 2.




To that end, we see that the turbulence we mentioned earlier seems poised to arrive from those
symbols found on the right: $SPY, $XLK, $XLI, $QQQ, $XLC, $XLR, and $XLR, while stabilizing
forces (read: bullish) appear forthcoming from $XLU, $XLB, $XLE, $XLV, $XLF, and $XLY.
Some curious identifying information from these two broad groups is that those in the green
($XLU, $XLB, …) is significantly more diversified as a group than those in the red, with sectors
such as utilities, energy, healthcare, banks and whatnot, while the red-group is quite concentrated
within Tech: $NVDA, $MSFT, $AMZ are all shared within $SPY, $QQQ, $XLK and $XLC.
Next up, in the not-seen-for-awhile data, let’s check on VoEx Variance and see what it has been
up to. Quick reminder: VoEx Variance takes all of the VoEx values within the market, calculates
their differences, aggregates the data, and displays it for us in a nifty format that shows both

2
    Check out Weekly Chat 2025-01-06 for a refresher on these data!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                   for the week of         2025-07-14 to 2025-07-19
where the majority of VoExes in the market are and how “erratically” spaced out the VoEx values
within the market are3.
In addition to the normal graphs, I also went and placed a line on the graph that showcases the
general “movement” of the data – as you’ll remember, one of the main ways of interpreting these
data is with the VoEx Variance cycle, as seen below:




Thus, since each individual graph shows data colored by date, I went and put an arrow with the
thin part in the most distant past and the larger part (with the arrow) in the more recent time. This
way, we can visualize how the data was moving through time, as a way of helping identify which
stage of the cycle is present within each graph.
Let’s check it out!




3
    Check out Weekly Chat 2025-03-10 for a good review of VoEx Variance and the graphs.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                   for the week of                   2025-07-14 to 2025-07-19
First, let’s check out the




The top graph shows us the VoEx-Daily VoEx Variance values as the distributions developed over
time from 2025-06-02 [title on graph is incorrect – apologies!] to present, which shows the market
well within the `Bullish Distribution` phase of things – you’ll note that the change in height of the
pathway as it connects with each date’s distribution, corresponds to the flattening out and
narrowing of the collections. Thus, in the top graph, we can see that the market’s general
movements, with regards to VV, has been up (getting more collected) and to the right (moving
bullish).



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2025-07-14 to 2025-07-19
Additionally, we can see that the data have been “rotating around” in a sense (while not spreading
out all that much) around the boundary line to stability. This places the market, in the `Bullish
Distribution` phase.
Moving onwards to VoEx itself, we see quite a different story [bottom graph]! Much more chaotic!
In this view, we can see that the migration to the left has been accompanied by a decrease in the
height of the distributions (and such, the height of the time-pathway), which suggests that the
Phase 1 Transition is present. This is defined as the start of bullish rumblings as VoExes
throughout the market start, in sequence, disagreeing with each other (as instability starts to
spread), and 2) start printing bearish prints. It seems step 1 is underway! This continues to speak
to the instability noted throughout the market, and thus, expected turbulence.
Let’s repeat this cycle but with some more historic data so we get a sense of a larger picture or
pattern that we might be apart of:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of                2025-07-14 to 2025-07-19
These data we won’t go through in detail – as they are largely the same but grouped by Month.
Up top, we see the general behavior of each month this year, with the current data for July (last
box; top graph) showing general wiggle towards the right – but so far no significant increase in
VoEx Variance.
This is, however, not the case when we look at VoEx proper in the bottom graph! So far, the data
show movement to the left has occurred (and come back slightly) while also flattening out quite
extensively!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-07-14 to 2025-07-19
Overall, I think its reasonable to say the market has been experiencing the `Bullish Distribution`
(in fact, we can see this clearly in the grouped data!) and there is evidence that market-wide
instability is starting to mount. This is evidenced by the general pattern of VoEx Variance
migrating to the left while spreading out – the hallmark finding for the Phase 1 transition.
Taken together, it seems much is the same and that is remarkably unremarkable. The market
appears ever ready to become infirm only to hussle through, and that appears by-and-large to be
the case now. Nonetheless, the data are mounting that downside is forthcoming and the
foundations of the market do not appear too healthy!
Thus, prudency continues to brace for turbulence with few thoughts of overall bullish behavior
until the skies clear, and so, since the skies aren’t clear, the head is filled with less fewer thoughts
of bearish behavior embracing the market!
Happy Trading,


Justin




Quick Update!
Ok I ran out of time again to do a full update – but! The gist is that there is a Data Dash patch /
update planned for August 1st! I’ll spread out more information as the time approaches but I’m
hoping for a decent upgrade so I’ll keep you posted!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2025-07-14 to 2025-07-19
