                                  Weekly Chat 2026-05-18


                                        Main Points



       -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ echo VoEx divergence with appreciating price
       -   Gamma-hedging heatmaps demonstrate local, diffuse selling pressure with
           purchasing support reasonably nearby.
       -   Gamma-squeeze data showcase continued, steady growth in GS counts while the
           predictive models showing positive expectations for the future.
       -   LS&T data showcase near-term bearish liquidity with multi-interval supports located
           about 2% down.

                                         SUMMARY



           Last week the bullish outlook was tentative, and this week it is
           absent as bearish expectations re-join the party.

           VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ showcase VoEx-divergence, indicating
           worsening liquidity as price appreciates; this places substantial risk
           due to the difficulty in timing the impending correction.

           The hedging heatmaps show persistent and diffuse selling pressure
           with near-by, spot-down support. Some concern exists regarding the
           purchasing support’s role should the organic bid become the
           liquidity source while these conditions persist.

           The gamma-squeeze data show the slow-and-steady GS growth is
           persistent, while the predictive models suggest the future will have
           both more gamma squeezes and a greater rate of gamma squeeze
           formation.

           Overall, the market’s instability appears to be growing and has
           obtained a level wherein prudency inhibits the adoption of a bullish
           outlook.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat         for the week of              2026-05-18 to 2026-05-22
                                              DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with technically bullish ideations but felt as though those ideations were a
tad rabid. To this end, the $SPY moved +0.21% while $QQQ moved -0.3% - not too shabby! We can
see the dissimilar weekly trajectories via the heatmaps:




It is interesting to see $SPY having moved up-and-to-the-left towards gamma neutrality while
$QQQ languished in its selling pressure throughout the week! Quite different behaviors from quite
different hedging heatmaps – pretty neato.
This week, let’s check in with the data to see if the rabies has spread, and if so, whether or not we
should tell anyone.
A peek over the edge
Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




For $SPY: much the same: VoEx-daily has stalled at the boundary and VoEx has slowly continued
its ascent. This is, on the surface, is bullish but if we peek at $QQQ’s VoEx, another interpretation
of $SPY’s VoEx comes to mind.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2026-05-18 to 2026-05-22
For $QQQ we see: VoEx(-daily) divergence! Concurrently, there is also a pivot noted in VoEx-
proper, indicating that, at minimum, VoEx is starting to head back down.
Now, if we take the VoEx-divergence noted on $QQQ and peek back over to $SPY, one might find
reasonable ground to argue that on average $SPY’s VoEx is demonstrating VoEx-divergence as
well (the net directional vector would be down!). Is VoEx-divergence path-dependent? This is not
a question I’m willing1 to answer right now but perhaps the near-term future will lend its opinion
on the matter here shortly.
Aside:
I was discussing this version of VoEx with someone with particular interest in the differences
between it and the original VoEx and I thought maybe sharing some of those points, namely:
When VoEx is moving close to 0 this indicates poor liquidity – so if VoEx (or VoEx-daily; it applies
to both) is moving towards neutrality, it means liquidity is draining.
Conversely, when VoEx is moving to ±∞ (either up or down), it indicates liquidity is abundant .

Thus, when we see VoEx-divergence, what we are seeing is the liquidity supporting this move is
draining which suggests two things:
      1) Local price volatility is likely to increase,
      2) Price is likely going to revert as the market searches for a different liquidity source (i.e.:
         price correction down)
So, in short, VoEx is technically bullish, but with the presence of VoEx-divergence, it seem an
incoming price correction is likely; when? Traditionally, the price correction initiates when VoEx
falls out of the Bullish Zone, which, in $QQQ’s case, can be a month or two, unless VoEx-daily
drags VoEx into the bearish zone sooner.
Let’s check with the hedging heatmaps to see if they’re going to help counter VoEx-divergence, or
usher reality towards similar ends:




Selling abound! Local environments for $SPY and $QQQ show selling pressure with a blanket of
purchasing support located spot-down.



1
    able


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                2026-05-18 to 2026-05-22
Hand-waving rant:
Initially the purchasing support feels supportive but: hedging is price insensitive, which means it
transacts where the liquidity is, so what happens if the liquidity source is the bid ? To be more
specific, what happens when the hedging simply blends in with the organic bid as said bid walks
the price lower? This purchasing support, then, becomes quite unsupportive !
Will this happen? It seems
probable, and with VoEx
diverging     (showing      bullish
liquidity is draining out of the
system somewhere), it seems to
put the possibility on the table.
Let’s check the market-wide
gamma squeeze data to discern
if this uneasy state is isolated or
dispersed      throughout       the
market:



Counts seem to be hovering, but
increased slightly over the past
month, two weeks and one
week. This is bearish and suggests the market-at-large is starting to “slide”.
In checking with the predictive data, we find:
                                                                   Fully positive values! This
                                                                   indicates that the models
                                                                   anticipate both an increase in
                                                                   nominal    gamma squeeze
                                                                     counts and an increase in the
                                                                        growth rate of gamma
                                                                         squeezes in the future!


                                                                    In short: instability is present,
                                                                    and it appears the future will
                                                                    have more of it!
                                                                    Quite bearish !




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2026-05-18 to 2026-05-22
Before we succumb to doomsdaymanship, let’s check LS&T data for a clear view of liquidity:




Concerning!
Bearish liquidity is noted on the 90-minute and 144-minute, the former of which lacks any
discernable supports while the latter shows LT-7 support ~2% down. This seems a reasonable
spot to expect price!
One thorn in the side of the slippery-slide of slippery-downside, however, is the early detection of
dip-buyers (LT-1 & 2) on the 144-minute; perhaps an early-week stall is brewing but the overall
direction still appears to be downside.

On the 987-minute shows bullish liquidity with LT-7 support ~1.9ish% south, which coїncides with
the 144-minute floor (its also worth mentioning price testing support occurs all the time with bullih
liquidity!).
The weekly view is similar, however, its worth noting that all LTs on this view have “flicked”
upwards, with LT-1 & LT-2 looking poised to shoot above spot. These findings are compatible
with a nascent aggressive ask cascade.

Thus, from this view, even with the bullish longer-term intervals, a path exists for testing supports
about 2% south of present. Thus, it seems that bearish ideations are back on the table, but for
now, they stop at ~2% down, after which, it will likely be prudent to reconsider the data before
taking the next step.
Thus, the outlook for next week: choppy and down as instability grows!
Happy Trading! Justin


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2026-05-18 to 2026-05-22
