                                 Weekly Chat 09/02/2024


 Main Points



    -   VoEx movement out of the Propagation Zone noted on $SPY and $QQQ – neither have
        reached Stability.
    -   Hedging environments are mixed; $SPY’s offers diffuse purchasing support while $QQQ
        straddles a vanna-unstbale, gamma-squeeze orientation.
    -   Put-selling has remained near-zero.
    -   Market-wide gamma squeeze data is largely unmoved currently.
    -   LDPS is demonstrating bearish outlooks on $QQQ on the Weekly and Monthly
        timeframes.

          SUMMARY



          Risk assessment continues to demonstrate high-risk for the current
          performance being a bull-trap.

          VoEx-daily has pivoted southwards towards the Propagation Zone, while
          VoEx is still to enter stability.

          Put-selling is moot and only $QQQ has shown a small increase ahead of
          the long-weekend, but overall the behavior remains absent. Suggesting
          little confidence in profitability in the [$+, IV-] sector.

          LDPS is printing bearish liquidity for $QQQ on the Weekly and Monthly
          timeframes.

          Overall, continued expectation for a bull-trap with high risk for large
          downside movement.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  09/02/2024
 DETAILS




Hello everybody!


Last week, we had lingering-but-skeptical bullish ideations for the future-ahead. This outlook
fared mixed, with $SPY giving an ever-so-slightly bullish performance of SPY% while $QQQ gave
a modest (but bearish) performance of around -0.80%.
These moves can be visualized below as usual with the Weekly Heatmap:




$QQQ’s moves brought it into selling pressure in the latter-half of the week; the consequence was
survived but it will be worth keeping an eye out later-on to see if the selling pressure is still present.
If so, well, then we’ll have to consider what that means for our future.
Let’s get started!
The start
begins with a look at VoEx, as usual:




The first noticeable difference since last week is VoEx’s movement out of the Propagation Zone
on $SPY, and $QQQ (to a lesser degree).

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                              09/02/2024
Unfortunate that this is occurring contralaterally to VoEx-daily, who finds itself looking to embark
on an exit.
The net effect of this is: tenuously bullish and evidence that the current bullish movement has
robust steam behind it. Nonetheless – until VoEx is in stability, this is, unfortunately, still a bull-
trap in the eyes of VoEx.
Soon, perhaps this will change; but for now, the outlook remains largely the same.
What about the hedging environments? How do they look for the week ahead. Does $QQQ still
have selling pressure?




Ye! $QQQ does indeed have some nearby selling pressure! For now, it seems things are
precariously hanging on to it a small plot of soutein d’achat that is separating the market from
pretty persistent selling pressure in the [$-, IV+] pathway.

On $SPY, the purchasing support is present (yay) but diffuse and doesn’t really provide any
directionality. For some directionality insights, we can peek the Influence Distribution, which
shows a neutral-to-bullish outlook for $SPY and a bearish-to-neutral outlook for $QQQ.

Another suggestion from these heatmaps is that if an early-week move pushes $QQQ into selling
pressure, the rest of the week may struggle to maintain its bullish outlook, as is the (ever-so)
dominant ideology.
Moving on, let’s check out the put-sellers to see what they are up to. Not much!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            09/02/2024
Some put-selling seen on $QQQ (curious!) but other than that, things have calmed down. It’s worth
noting that usually one sees at-least a small up-tick in put-selling preceding longer-weekends, but
it seems this week we don’t. No desire to profit from additional theta decay it seems.
Thus, so far it seems we have continued evidence for a developing bull-trap, with a mixed hedging
environment that is poised to “drop the floor” out from under $QQQ, and little-to-no desire to sell
puts in front of a long weekend. These are bearish-leaning prints for sure.
Zooming into GTM (the rest of the MWGS data are largely the same with little movement in GS
numbers) we see GTM-ema is, or was, just about to become positive like its fellow compatriots,
but is simply not doing so.




Obviously zooming in this far is more whimsical than objective but it does suggest that the latest
long-gamma surge in the market (measured via the reduction in gamma squeezes) does not
seem to have much follow-up noted to it for the weeks ahead.
I still don’t think the market is being bothered by the underlying option flows all that much
currently – a fact that we can use to keep our downside expectations confined still to the medium-
term.
Moving slightly tangentially to LDPM/LDPS, we see that $QQQ’s tenuously-bullish-condition-as-
discerned-from-VoEx is echoed by an also-tenuous-showing-of-data-by-way-of-LDPS in that LDPS
has downgraded $QQQ (on Balanced setting) on the Daiy and Weekly interval to Bearish:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        09/02/2024
This suggests that in the event of the bull-trap trapping, a potential price-target for $QQQ is nearly
$414(!) where LDPM-144 currently sits. This is currently about a 12% decline, should all things
remain largely the same.
So, all-in-all, the data are continuing along the anticipated pathway for a bull-trap: so far we had
very bullish, bullish, and now weakly-bullish market performances all-the-while conditions have
worsened on the hedging environments and LDPM/S slightly and though, improved slightly from
VoEx’s perspective.
The actional outcome of all this blabbering? Bullish-until-proven-otherwise! Just as with all bull-
traps.
In our case, otherwise here is likely movement towards LDPM-144 on $QQQ’s weekly, VoEx
moving back into the Propagation Zone, and gamma—squeeze growth. These should be the
expected consequence of a deteriorating bull-trap.
Otherwise, if VoEx continues to improve, gamma squeeze data remains relatively dormant, put-
sellers reëmerge, then perhaps our medium-timeframe for bearish performance has passed.
But, until then: planning for bullish performance but expecting termination of the bull-trap shortly.


Happy trading,


Justin


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           09/02/2024
