                                 Weekly Chat 2026-07-06


                                       Main Points



       -   VoEx continues its overall descent but VoEx-daily speaks of near-term bullish
           action.
       -   Hedging heatmaps show purchasing support throughout so long as IV doesn’t cool
           off quite as much.
       -   LS&T study shows mixed data but support for a bounce.

                                        SUMMARY



           The anticipated bounce is underway with evidence that it is likely to
           continue into the start of the week.

           Signs of an impending end to the bounce are IV dropping and price
           struggling against one of the LT ceilings.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat        for the week of            2026-07-06 to 2026-07-10
                                               DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, the idea was a bounce but likely return to downside. Well, the bounce did bounce but
downside has yet to resume. $SPY moved 2.1% while $QQQ moved -0.50%; quite the discrepancy!
This week, the goal is simple: should we expect downside to resume still or did the bounce have
enough juice to prompt another bounce? Let’s try to find out.
VoEx
Starting as usual with (see above), we find:




The overall trend of VoEx migrating sourthwards but, it seems, with a slight detour towards the
end of the week, as VoEx-daily for both $SPY and $QQQ have shot upwards, suggesting the
bounce might have some legs. This stance is augmented even more on $QQQ specifically as
VoEx has yet to take the plunge officially into the bearish zone. Combined, this points towards a
continued bounce.
Checking in with the hedging heatmaps, we find:




Quite bullish findings! Purchasing support located all around both $SPY and $QQQ, yet, not
without its pitfalls, as both are limited (with $QQQ to a greater extent) in how much IV can drop,


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2026-07-06 to 2026-07-10
should they choose a [$$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] path ahead. Should IV drop too much the now-supportive
purchasing support will quickly dissolve into selling pressure.
Thus, the week looks primed for a continued bounce, but should IV drop substantially, then risk
for the bounce ending increases as too does the selling pressure.
Moving on to the LS&T data, we find:




Mixed but overall somewhat bullish findings:
         -   The 90minute is not bullish as liquidity is bearish but LT5 has positioned itself as a
             support, along with LT6 & 7.
         -   The 144-minute shows a bulltrap with a ceiling at $7,632 (which represents the next
             likely “stop”),
         -   The 987-minute is a bear trap-esque with LT7 & 6 acting ready to act as supports (and
             all of the eager parties are dip-buyers currently),
         -   The weekly still shows bullish liquidity with LT5 as a support.
Thus, overall, the bounce looks like it intends to continue for awhile, at least until IV prompts
selling pressure or one of the LT ceilings is reached. Until then, bullish is the word!


Happy Trading,
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2026-07-06 to 2026-07-10
