                                     Weekly Chat 5/20/2024


                                           Main Points


    -   Mixed VoEx responses: $SPY’s has stalled at the Inhibition Line, whereas $QQQ’s has
        entered Bullish-until-proven-otherwise territory.
    -   Hedging environments are predominately supportive for a $+/IV- week. $QQQ presents
        within a vanna-stable hedging environment.
    -   Put-sellers have continued to reduce their exposure in the past week.
    -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data suggests a local decrease in growth within a larger-
        scale growth period.
    -   Overall, bullish but leaning towards bull trap.

                                           SUMMARY



          VoEx for $SPY has maintained its stay within the Inhibition Zone, however,
          it has stalled at the Inhibition Line. A similar but distinct tale for $QQQ this
          week, as VoEx has both moved into the Inhibition Zone, and seemingly
          spiked there, bringing with it BUPO. The mixed interpretations of VoEx
          extend to neo-VoEx as well, overing a tenuously bullish outlook.

          This outlook is paired nicely with the current hedging environments, who
          are providing reasonably diffuse and present purchasing support for $SPY
          and $QQQ. $QQQ, in contrast slightly to $SPY, does find itself within the
          purchasing support section of a vanna-stable orientation.

          Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data is mixed – the overall
          growth-rate of gamma-squeezes in the market is experiencing a local low,
          while the larger-scale rate is moving towards a local peak. Throughout
          this, GTM has been progressively moving back towards negative territory.

          Put-sellers are unconvinced for profitability in the near future as the put-
          selling activity continues to decline.

          Taken all together, it offers a picture of a market that is becoming quite
          mixed, with the more immediate expectation being bullish-with-additional
          -dose-of-prudency, and hesitation that this bullish performance might still
          be a trap.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           05/20/2024
                                              DETAILS




Hello everybody!
Some updates before we get started:
There are some updates about the recent Dashboard Patch:
   -   The “data processing issue has been fixed” part of the Patch Notes wasn’t completely
       correct. This functionality has been disabled for now. Apologies.
On the Trading Robot:
   -   The current beta version will be updated on 2024-05-24
       This is going to be a completely new version of the robot, and as such, all alerts / current
       processes will need to be re-configured and re-implemented.
       This is going to be Beta 2.0 as the new insides for this robot are quite different. I want to
       observe it for a few weeks before officially bringing the final version out to everyone.
       Speaking of the final version: this doesn’t really apply to you guys, per se, but the trading
       robot will no longer be included in the Premium Membership from 2024-06-01 onwards.
       Naturally, you guys will still have access to this and all updated versions.
Next Updates

   -   The next set of updates are being planned and are focused mainly on the Data and Market
       Scan page of the Dashboard.
       If you have any suggestions / comments / ideas for features or quality-of-life
       implementations, please let me know!
Okay, back to the regular programming:
Over the past week or so, the data have been becoming increasingly bullish, and, to our benefit,
so have we. This week provided no exception, with $SPY moving 1.65%, and $QQQ: 2.19%.
Ordinarily, this alignment between bullish expectations and bullish performance would be met
with blind faith for its continuance, but, seeing as we are fresh-off the heels of quite bearish
expectations, the confidence in its perpetuality is significantly reduced.
So, this week, let’s look at the data as usual, but with particular attention focused on finding any
signs that might be hiding about before putting on the blinders.


Let’s get started!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         05/20/2024
Starting
Last week’s movements were fairly standard, as can be seen from $SPY’s and $QQQ’s heatmap
below.




These movements were, by-and-large, uncontested throughout the week, despite a few pre-
market suggestions.
These movements kept VoEx within the Inhibition Zone for both $SPY and $QQQ, as can be seen
below:




The main difference between $SPY (left) and $QQQ (right) is the appearance of the more “spike-
like” presentation on $QQQ – denoting a touch more instability in comparison.
Ordinarily, VoEx surviving within the Inhibition Zone for a week would likely meet the qualifications
for “BUPO” (of the Bullish variety), however with the aforementioned spike on $QQQ, and along
with VoEx’s stall at the IZ for $SPY, we here at DDS remain ever-skeptical.
On the surface, this VoEx presentation is bullish, but given that VoEx is within the Inhibition Zone,
it makes it an unstable bullish. Thus – with two slight anomalies, prudency suggests emphasis
on the unstable.

Neo-VoEx is sort of in agreement – just from a slightly different angle, I suppose. For neo-VoEx,
that angle is the continued discrepancy between $SPY and $QQQ:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          05/20/2024
Whereas $SPY’s VoEx is within the P.Z. still, $QQQ’s has definitely entered the “Stable Zone”. The
difference this makes is in the interpretation of the current VoEx-daily behavior.
For $SPY, since VoEx is within the P.Z., VoEx-daily’s current behavior is still a VoEx Spike, which
translates to “this is a bull-trap”, whereas VoEx-daily’s behavior on $QQQ is simply “bullish1”.
Perhaps it will only take a day or two at the start-of-the-week for either of the VoExes to decide
definitively – and I’ll take the opportunity to look forward to that.
With VoEx interpreted, we have narrowed down the possible future market-moves as either “up”
or, even possibly, “down”. Let’s see what other insights we can craft.
Moving on to the Heatmaps, we see that both $SPY and $QQQ are reasonably surrounded by
purchasing support for the week ahead.




Once could argue that $SPY seems to have a tad more, as compared to $QQQ, and one would
probably be correct.
Coincidentally, there does seem to be a bit of a “lower-limit” with regards to how low IV can go,
for $SPY and, to a greater extent, $QQQ, IV decreasing is liable to activate the “stable-vanna
configuration” present on both, wherein more IV-decreasing will introduce selling, which typically
pushes IV up, which will then introduce purchasing support, thus pushing IV down, and around it
goes.
Thus, the heatmaps seem well poised to offer an appreciatory week, but perhaps, with the modest
expectation for turbulence should IV drop too much.



1
 VoEx-daily’s “spike-like” behavior when VoEx is within Stable is more akin to “buy the upcoming dip” than “go
short for the upcoming dip”, which is the VoEx for $SPY’s interpretation.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                     05/20/2024
Next up, let’s take a peek at the gamma squeeze data!
Note: I updated the MWGS Growth Graph, check it out:
Ta-da! The new MWGS Growth Graph (top graph) is hopefully much clearer and easier to interpret.
                                                      It shows the change in the growth-rate
                                                      of gamma squeezes on a more
                                                      “granular” timescale (light blue), and a
                                                      more prolonged timescale (gold).

                                                             Coincidentally, this shows that
                                                             although we are in a local decrease in
                                                             gamma squeezes (with a weekly
                                                             decrease of about 10%), overall we’ve
                                                             been trending upwards in our gamma
                                                             squeeze growth rates!
                                                             So, near-term bullish thoughts and
                                                             longer-term unstable thoughts.
                                                             Moving on some more, below we see
                                                             GTM is positive but, as it would
                                                             appear, not too convinced with said
                                                             locale.
                                                             Another item to keep a close eye on as
                                                             the week starts: GTM. Should GTM
                                                             continue south into negative territory,
                                                             it would be a nod towards the “bull
                                                             trap” camp.


Next up, in our crosshairs are the put-sellers, who, even after quite a fortuitous week for them, did
not see fit to place
more bets on the
market
undergoing $+ or
IV- in the week(s) a
head.
Although
quantitatively this
print is relatively
minor (as there’s
still net growth on
$SPY), qualitatively said data are spooky. And that, my dear readers, makes me feel somewhat
spooked. Why aren’t they selling puts in such a put-selling-friendly environment? Why?
WHYYYY?


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          05/20/2024
So, all-in-all, it seems reasonable to bet on more price appreciation in the times ahead but with a
cautious eye on VoEx, hedging heatmaps, and DLPs.
Should VoEx for $SPY join $QQQ, then another round of BUPO (of the Bullish variety) is all but
confirmed, whereas if $QQQ’s VoEx reverses course and re-join’s $SPY, then a bull-trap seems
the reasonable interpretation.
The heatmaps show diminishing purchasing support in the IV- direction – in particular, $QQQ,
who also has diminished purchasing support overall (in comparison to $SPY). In the event of any
$- or IV+, I expect the heatmaps to start becoming quite dynamic. Otherwise, if the week is $+ /
IV-, I think they will remain largely the same.

The DLP observation is straightforward: the longer the put-sellers sit-out on the music, the more
anxious (but also confident) I will become that we are living through a bull-trap.
Quite the dynamic market a head of us!


Happy Trading and Good Luck!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        05/20/2024
