                                     Weekly Chat 04/22/2024


                                            Main Points


    -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ have entered the Propagation Zone with possible divergence
        noted on Friday.
    -   Both hedging environments offer strong purchasing support and a relatively free path
        towards gamma neutrality and $+.
    -   Put-selling is still in “retraction” with no signs of sellers selling.
    -   Market-wide gamma squeeze data is showing a decrease in the growth-rate of gamma
        squeezes, and negative GTM prints.
    -   VoEx Variance has produced data within the Propagation Zone.
    -   Overall, increased risk for flat-bounce but overall outlook remains steady and bearish.



                                            SUMMARY



           VoEx ended its indecision from last week by plunging into the Propagation
           Zone on Monday. This was followed by weekly bearish performance.

           VoEx currently resides well-within the P.Z., but a subtle VoEx Divergence
           has formed on both $SPY and $QQQ. Admittedly, this is not the ”usual”
           VoEx Divergence but its presence suggests preparation for a bullish-
           bounce in the week ahead.

           The gamma hedging heatmaps are supportive for said bounce in-and-up-
           to gamma neutrality, at which time the purchasing support quickly ends
           and selling pressure rapidly replaces it.

           Put-selling is still in a negative state with no put sellers selling puts by the
           seashore – this reduces optimism for any significant $+/IV- in the times
           ahead.

           VoEx Variance has finally printed values within the Propagation Zone, an
           indication of prolonged and sustained downside. These data will be
           monitored for developments in the upcoming weeks to months.

           Overall, increased risk for a flat-to-greenish week in the face of robust
           bearish ideologies.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            04/22/2024
                                                  DETAILS




Well, Hello everyone!
Last week, we left off with the idea that there was a heightened risk for “mean-reversion” towards
bullish performance, and as such, some pause in leaning fully into shorting the market appeared
reasonable during the start-of-the-week; namely that VoEx should dive into the PZ.
Well, time came and went, and it appears that this heightened risk never manifested and VoEx
quickly moved on Monday, and things proceeded along the bearish route, with $SPY moving -
3.07% for the week, along with $QQQ’s -5.39%!
Wowzas.

In comparison to what the market was projecting (as measured through IV-30), these movements
represent a 253% greater-than-(weekly)-EPR for $QQQ, and 190% greater-than-expected weekly
moves for $SPY. Quite the expansion from expectations!

Curiously, this shows that $QQQ moved relatively significantly more than $SPY, despite its more-
abundant purchasing support, as discussed last week. This can be visualized below with the
weekly progression mapped out for $SPY and $QQQ:




Despite what appears to be a valiant attempt to reign things back in on the 16th on $QQQ1 by way
of sprinting towards gamma neutrality. This effort, it seems, was in vein.
So – with such big movements behind us, it seems this week’s question is going to be: how deep
does the rabbit hole go? (Oh, and also let’s talk about the up-coming Dashboard updates!)
Let’s try to find out!




1
 Notice the mad-dash for gamma neutrality for $QQQ; which, perhaps worthy of consideration, is absent from
$SPY’s performance.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                  04/22/2024
“How strange it is to be anything at all”2

Starting as usual with VoEx, we see things are both largely unchanged and changed, all at the
same time:
                                                                  We see that post-giant-VoEx spike
                                                                  in late 2024-03, $SPY has steadily
                                                                  declined, with VoEx now residing
                                                                  within the Propagation Zone.
                                                                  To a lesser extent, $QQQ’s VoEx
                                                                  Spike is present, but in mid-April
                                                                  (just a week or two ago), after
                                                                  which,      things    progressed
                                                                  similarly .
                                                                  Thankfully, this move alleviates
                                                                  us of the worry from last week
                                                                  regarding the stagnation of VoEx
                                                                  at the Propagation Line.
                                                                One     would      be
                                                                remiss, however, in
                                                                not pointing out the
                                                                VoEx     Divergence
                                                                present on $SPY
                                                                and $QQQ. This
                                                                type     of      VoEx
                                                                Divergence          is
significantly less-often-seen, and it is typically seen on the reverse presentation
(when price is going up, not down), but nonetheless, it is present in the “literature”
(below)3.
                                             This is a very hand-wavy nod to a
                                             potential “bounce back”. Handy-wavy
                                             but perhaps provocative enough to
                                             consider as we progress through the
                                             data more.
                                             Overall, the interpretation lays along the
                                             idea of continued downside but with a
                                             hint of “bouncy-ness” to it.




2
    Lewis C. Caroll – Alice in Wonderland
3
    Tier II, Page 23.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            04/22/2024
We can verify this outlook with neo-VoEx, which shows $SPY and $QQQ well-suited in the
Propagation Zone.




We also see VoEx-daily (magenta) briefly rising towards stability as well – echoing the Divergence
noted in the original VoEx data. Neo-VoEx (as its called, for now), is helpful in that the medium-,
and long-term outlooks are set via VoEx (old VoEx-trend), which is resoundingly bearish given
both their locations within the Propagation Zone, while in the short-term (VoEx-daily) is suggestive
of a bounce forming (since its [albeit very subtly] shifted towards stability).
But, until VoEx (old VoEx-trend), leaves the Propagation Zone, the overall interpretation is still:
down.
But – supposing some bouncy-ness ahead, how would this bouncy-ness be responded to from
the Hedging Heatmaps? Let’s find out.




Very well, it would seem!
Both $SPY and $QQQ present with very healthy down-stream purchasing support, and a relatively
head-wind-free pathway towards gamma neutrality and beyond (dashed lines).
Now, it is anyone’s guess how the market will handle gamma-neutrality; without its buoyant
purchasing support behind it, will things just fall back towards the week’s start or will an organic
bid be there to start catching things?

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         04/22/2024
The influence distribution finds the former suggestion likely with the peak-probability occurring in
modest-bullish-blue, but with a larger left-wards tail into negative territory (and notice the little
hump in the white-zone (flat-price action).

Taken together, this seems to paint a picture of an upcoming “dead-cat-bounce” – but one that
may not be worth participating in, given the uncertainty of the gamma-neutrality zone, anticipated
head-winds from hedging, and VoExes’ positions.
So, with some consideration for a bullish bounce seems reasonable – both from a “wow the
market just moved 3%” humanistic-perspective, and from the data; do our put-selling friends share
this outlook?




Nope! Not yet. This suggests little-to-no expectation for profitability via $+/IV- for the time ahead.
Moving from friends to
gamma-squeezes, we see
a somewhat curious sight.

Despite the week-over-
week decrease in gamma
squeezes,    GTM     has
started          printing
definitively    negative
prints.
So, whereas growth is
slowing, and there is even
some     destruction    of
gamma           squeezes
occurring, it would seem
that market has left the
short-gamma hose open,
and there is a good
amount of short-gamma
(and    thusly,   gamma
squeezes), headed towards the market.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           04/22/2024
Since GTM’s forecast is about ~2-4 weeks, should one want this to fit into the narrative of a “flat-
dead-cat-bounce”, one would find it easily fits: near-term gamma squeeze exodus with impending
storm clouds on the horizon (via GTM).

So, overall, it seems downside is the prudent expectation I will hold, with some threat to near-term
flat-bounce. I am not too keen on prospecting through any bounce – perhaps something here and
something there, but should it occur, I will mainly work on finding good shorting opportunities for
when the market regains its senses.
Should things not bounce, well, then full-steam ahead with the prevailing paradigm and positions.
But! Before we move on to the Dashboard updates, let’s take a peek at our friend, VoEx Variance.
Last time we visited VoEx Variance4 it was to check if there were any data within the Propagation
Zone; you may remember such statements as:
                                                         “
… near term downside that shows signs of being relatively isolated for now. Until data starts to
appear in the Propagation Zone, it suggests that the market, by-and-large, is well suited to
“handle” and near-term downside. Should data start to appear in the P.Z. during the anticipated
near-term downside, then this time-horizon will have to be re-evaluated.
                                                         “
To that extent, let’s see if there are any data within the Propagation Zone:




4
    Some changes to VoEx Variance! It is now using the improved VoEx for extra oomfph.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           04/22/2024
Yes, it would appear so! And quite a bit of it too.
Thus, it may be reasonable to brace for prolonged downside, and to consider, for the time being,
the idea that bullish performance will, by-and-large, be taken back by the market.
The week-a-head’s plan for me then seems to be to anticipate navigating some soft-bullish / flat
waters but with the overall outlook remaining on the bearish side of things.
Now that that’s out of the way, let’s look at some new toys!
The next round of Dashboard updates are well-under-way and I wanted to share with you guys
some of the things I’ve been working on for you. These updates mainly have to do with the “Graph”
page, as I feel that it is underwhelming and, in its currents state, largely redundant.
Thus, I am in the process of adding a lot more functionality, and, perhaps more importantly, the
page is being re-worked into a foundation that will allow for expansion of the tools available to
you to facilitate to your research efforts.
Okay - enough chatter, let’s take a few looks.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      04/22/2024
Ever want to see what VoEx would look like with a 20-day Exponential moving average applied to
it? Well now you can!




And it looks something like this:




Neato! It’ll be up to you to figure out what exactly that means, though!
Or perhaps you want to see just dark-pool data for $GME with a MAD-transformation (helpful to
see how “significantly different” something is as compared to its prior behavior), and some
exponential smoothing?




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    04/22/2024
There ya go! Also, the dark pool data can be a bar graph now! Actually - any of the data can be!
But, the graphs seem kind of --- meh right now. So, let’s
spruce that up: let’s look at a nice blue-background and
a classic style for $NVDA along with LDPM-Vol in bar-
graph format, and DPI as a dot-plot with a 125 … let me
just show you:
But now, we’re also going to add some settings for the
graph:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       04/22/2024
This produces:




Oooooo
                               Ahhhhh
                                                               How cool!
Obviously, there is a lot to do still in the short-term before release (adding a tad more functionality
as well as aesthetics), and even more to do in the long-term, but I am expecting the first patch
with this functionality to be around 05/11/2024.
If the date gets pushed back I’ll let you know – but (fingers crossed) things have been progressing
quite nicely so perhaps, this time, it might even come early! Who knows.


That’s all I have for you guys this week,


Happy trading


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            04/22/2024
