                                  Weekly Chat 2026-04-06


                                        Main Points



       -   VoEx-daily shows a bulltrap on both $SPY and $QQQ with early evidence of the
           bounce terminating.
       -   Hedging heatmaps are supportive for bullish performance with the caveat of a limit
           to how much 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − can be obtained in pursuit of $+ .
       -   LS&T data showcase near-term resistance, profit-takers and bear-traps while the
           higher intervals show bearish liquidity failing to over-take ceiling.



                                         SUMMARY



           The bounce is underway and there does appear to be some fuel left
           in the tank for continued $+ but should one ask just how much fuel
           there is remaining, then the picture starts to look less optimistic.

           VoEx-daily appears to have already inflexed, the first sign that a
           VoEx-daily-bull-trap (aka VoEx spike) is terminating (and thus $− is
           expected). The second sign of minimal fuel remaining are the profit-
           takers noted on all time intervals in the LS&T data, along with
           persistent bearish liquidity noted on the 987-minute and weekly
           vantage points.

           There is some supportive evidence that the tank is perhaps more
           full than not by way of the purchasing support on the heatmaps and
           the bullish liquidity on the 90-minute and 144-minutes.

           Taken together, volatile markets and there is some evidence of a
           “lingering bounce” but minimal evidence of a bottom having been
           reached and so downside takes the default outlook evermore.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat         for the week of             2026-04-06 to 2026-04-10
                                             DETAILS




Hello all!
                                           Quick Note:
Registration occurred ! If you have had any hiccups getting your tools back, let me know!
                                                --
Apologies but another very short weekly chat this week – the last one, hopefully.


We briefly discussed last week a bounce but shooed it away, only to be haunted by said decision,
as can be seen in the heatmaps:




For the future, let’s place LT7 on the weekly on the list of forces potent enough to move past some
selling pressure.
This rapid performance upwards brings to mind more equal but opposing visions (one for each
eye, presumably) (1): greater-than-EPR price movement brings visions of dancing mean-reversion
fairies and (2) A substantial bounce may beget more bounce. Which will it be?
Let’s try to find out

Starting with VoEx as usual we find:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2026-04-06 to 2026-04-10
On its own, these are bullish-adjacent prints in that it appears a VoEx-daily spike is underway but
if one really zooms in, we can see VoEx-daily has already “pivoted” ever-so-slightly, suggesting
the $+ has terminated. Yet – whatever happened this week seems to have been significant
enough to nudge VoEx itself up.
On the whole these are bull-trap-like prints with some evidence that the bull-trap is trappething
byway of VoEx-daily appearing to have already terminated and positioned itself to point back
downwards – but this is, admittedly, a rather tiny nodule so let’s check the hedging heatmaps:




These are supportive heatmaps! In particular if one is interested in a nice [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] week! It should
be noted that there is a “lower-limit” of sorts to the 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − potential before running into selling
pressure, but if the “effects” of LT7 bid from the weekly are still present in the week, then this will
mingle nicely with the purchasing support.
Gamma squeeze data [not shown] do show a slight decrease in expectations for GS counts and
growths for the future but are still wholly positive.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                2026-04-06 to 2026-04-10
LS & T data (below) I think show the best “overall” view of conditions:




Starting with the weekly we see the bounce indeed bouncing, along with some evidence of dip-
buyers moving in (LT1, LT2) but curiously it appears the week stopped just short of over-taking
LT5 (or was rejected therefrom) which does suggest that while there is some organic bid
supporting spot it is not particularly interested in excelling spot upwards.
On the 987-minute we find admittedly less support and bearish liquidity present.
Taken together on the higher-intervals, the view very much so looks like “bounce” more than
“recovery”.
The lower-intervals are telling as well – despite the bullish liquidity, we find all profit-takers have
emerged on the 90-minute, suggesting that at minimum, movement back down to LT7 is in the
works. These bearish ideations are amplified on the 144-minute wherein we find spot, in all its
bullish glory, failing to overtake LT7, along with the growing presence of profit-taking as well.
Thus, overall, flat-to-down is likely in the week ahead, hopefully with slightly less volatility than the
week prior which can allow us to see the data with some dust settled. The data suggesting a
bounce continuing seems equally opposed by the overhead opposition, leaving the fate of the
market in the hands of the market’s sensibilities. So downside is likely!
Happy Trading! Justin



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                2026-04-06 to 2026-04-10
