                                 Weekly Chat 01/29/2024


                                       Main Points


      -   VoEx maintains its Bullish-until-proven-otherwise stance on the market.
      -   Hedging environments are vanna-unstable.
      -   Put-selling on $QQQ remains elevated while selling remains diminished on $SPY
          with near-zero levels.
      -   GTM is still engaged with its large complex, and is printing positive values.
      -   Overall, BUPO (of the Bullish variety).



                                        SUMMARY



          VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ have remained in a persistently elevated state
          within the Inhibition Zone, which qualifies them both for Bullish-until-
          proven-otherwise (BUPO). This stance will be maintained until VoEx exits
          the Inhibition Zone.

          Hedging environments remain in a vanna-unstable orientation, with
          $QQQ presenting with greater selling pressure than its compatriot $SPY.
          No purchasing support is available for either in the event of a $-/IV+
          week.

          DLPs remain high on $QQQ but not on $SPY, who is starting the week
          with near-zero DLP activity.

          GTM is completing its large positive complex and is printing near-zero
          but positive values. The market experienced a 10% reduction in GS’ the
          week prior. The expectation is a growth in gamma squeezes in the
          future.

          A potential new tool, Liquidity Reserves, suggests that $QQQ is
          experiencing a reduction in liquidity reserves while $SPY is doing okay.

          Overall, technically bullish per VoEx but with continued signs of growing
          instability.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    01/29/2024
                                         DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we left off with the notion VoEx had returned to the Inhibition Zone after a brief
pause, and as such, ideologies switched back to BUPO (of the Bullish variety).
This outlook served well, as $SPY experienced a 1.03% week-over-week gain while $QQQ moved
a staggering 0.62%. $QQQ’s relative weak performance (which was 100.83% lower than max-
EPR, as opposed to $SPY’s which was only 23% less than max-EPR) can be seen in the
heatmaps below as a consequence of a rapid introduction of selling pressure, as we will
observe even belower.




Notice that the 22nd, 23rd, and 24th all saw a general movement of $+/IV-, when thereupon
touching selling pressure, $QQQ was seemingly jettisoned backwards (IV+) and down ($-). This
progression is seen with even more detail if we look at $QQQ’s heatmaps in depth on the next
page.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   01/29/2024
                                 The week opened up to an
                                 introduction of a significant
                                 quantity of new OTM DSCs and
                                 OTM DLPs for $QQQ. It should be
                                 noted that both of these types of
                                 positions will provoke reasonably
                                 potent influences on the market,
                                 such as:
                                 1 – Immediate purchasing via the
                                 initial hedging required (OTM DSCs
                                 are short delta, thus require
                                 purchasing to hedge, and OTM
                                 DLPs are also short delta and so
                                  they also required purchasing).
                                   Some might even say “these two
                                   positions can help create an
                                   eager bid”), and

                                  2 – The introduction of
                                  purchasing-hedge requirements
                                  in the event of an IV+ move, with
                                  the converse introduction of
                                  selling in the event of a IV- move.

                                  A interesting consequence of
                                  these two forces, it would seem,
                                  is    that      $QQQ     became
                                  “landlocked” away from gamma
                                  neutrality in a sense – unable to
                                  reach gamma neutrality due to
                                  the inability to drop IV without
                                  causing concurrent selling to into
                                  the market.
                                   The delta component of this
                                   dynamic can be visualized nicely
                                   with the Delta Hedging table for
                                   the 24th and 25th:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                          01/29/2024
This dynamic situation reminds me of the ranting I did discussion from a few weeks ago
(Weekly Chat 2024-01-19) wherein we investigated the relative changes in liquidity and hedging
requirements. It was noted that several large tickers appeared to be in a situation where the
there was an eager bid that was supplying liquidity. This configuration begged the question:
“what happens when the bid stops being eager?” (such as, the removal of substantial eager bid
from high-delta, high-gamma options).
The idea is that if the eager bid is either no longer present, or not supplying liquidity, then
liquidity would worsen, price variance would increase, and then the price would drop (since
there’s no eager bid, the ask would have to drop down to the organic bid to transact). This
process would unfold and create a liquidity vacuum, as can be seen below:




Now, what if the market had a reasonable amount of selling pressure floating about (as per the
Heatmaps), which is introducing an eager ask, while also experiencing a liquidity-providing
eager bid? Well, it would be the same as above, except the spread would be much smaller: in
fact, it would be so small, we should probably see a decrease in price variance throughout this
process1.
So, let’s check out price variance on
$QQQ with a 10-day rolling window:
And, indeed! That’s what we see: a
decrease in price variance!
Kind of.
It seems more fair to say “variance has
stalled its ascent” from this view than
to say variance has decreased, no? (It
should be noted that this stalling is

1
 Suppose two parties are eager to trade at any price, what would happen? Well – they would trade at any price!
They would effectively introduce transactions into the market without affecting the price. This would work to
decrease price variance and increase volume variance!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                    01/29/2024
significantly more apparent on the 20-day rolling variance graph!).
So, it would seem that liquidity has been improving overall in the markets since about the start
of the year. And, if our handwaving is to be believed, this is mainly due to a persistent and robust
eager bid that has been absorbing both selling pressure, and the organic ask within the market.
To look at this one step further before moving on, remember how above it said “This
[configuration] would work to decrease price variance and increase volume variance!”? If that’s
so, let’s check out a similar graph but this time, let’s normalize the variance of price against the
variance of volume to see just how “smoothly” things are running when we account for how
many interactions are occurring.
                                                        ---
Nerd time real quick, just so we can understand what is happening in the graph below.
So, we took the variance of the change in price with a 10-day rolling window. The change-in-
price (or Δ𝑆𝑆) variance tells us how much the change-in-price changes from one day to the next,
as compared to the prior values (in this case, the prior 10 values). A high variance means things
are much different “than normal”, and a low variance means things are “much the same” as
compared to normal.
The same applies for the variance of volume. The idea is that when there are eager bids and
asks present (such as dynamic hedgers, or ETF rehypothicators, etc.), then volume will tend to
fluctuate more than it normally does as more participants enter the market. This fluctuating
participation is expected to:
      1) Be more extreme during “rapidly changing” market conditions, and
      2) Be most pronounced during low liquidity states.

Thus, there should be a way to see just how well the market is able to handle these fluctuations.
To do so, let’s craft a rudimentary Liquidity Reserve (LR) metric to investigate this idea.
(Remember, this all has to do with the idea that “what if the large, eager bid on $QQQ (that is
probably being driven by large DLP and DSC openings) disappears while $QQQ is still
surrounded by selling pressure”.)


                                                              𝜎𝜎|Δ𝑆𝑆|
                                               𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿 = −               2
                                                              𝜎𝜎|Δ𝑉𝑉|

Should the variance of the absolute change in volume (𝜎𝜎|Δ𝑉𝑉| ) increase (representing more
“activity” than normal) while the variance of price remains the same, then it would appear that
the market is well-suited to “absorb” this erratic market participation via good liquidity, and thus,
LR will increase towards -1.00; conversely, if things are not running well, the LR should decrease.
Now with that out of the way, let’s check out the graph.

2
    Full disclosure: not the full algorithm, just a key component.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          01/29/2024
                                               ---
So, despite the decrease in price
variance (suggesting an improvement
in liquidity), we can see that when we
account for the volume variance, things
don’t look so peachy! (Perhaps this is
why “decrease in price variance” really
means “price variance stopped
increasing for a second”: there’s
diminishing reserve liquidity!
With a steadily falling LR, it would
seem the market is becoming
progressively less apt at handling changes in volume without it affecting the change in price.

Something to consider should the market (i.e.: $QQQ) stop seeing such gregarious eager bid.
Let’s expand on this metric some and look at the change in $QQQ versus its LR, grouped by
year:




But – do these values actually mean anything? Let’s take a quick peek at this FQ throughout
time:
There are some notable trends during which time after an increase in the FQ that have some
curious findings. For instance, notice the liquidity reserve drain prior to the 2020 collapse, and
the early 2021 market correction, and note the persistently low LR throughout the whole of
2022!

(Worth mentioning that our current environment just became LR < 1 as well).


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       01/29/2024
Taking a bit more of a look, let’s assume that LR does help anticipate future market ability to
absorb “sudden erratic changes” in volume (i.e.: investor behavior). This should imply that the
future price variance increases as LR decreases – if the market is becoming less apt at handling
sudden change, and then sudden change does occur, we should expect the market to, in its
poorly liquid state, respond with significant price variance. Is this the case?
To view this, let’s map LR against the 20-day rolling future price variance:




Oh my! That’s nice.
Let’s check out the non-absolute value to see if there is directional insight as well:




Very, very cool!
It would appear this little tool of ours is able to show 10-day correlations with both price
variance (volatility) and price direction!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           01/29/2024
The current value for $QQQ is -1.5 for the LR, which is associated (just so) with 10-day future
negative returns!
Before we move on, let’s check out $SPY’s Liquidity Reserve behavior as of late:




With a value >-1.0, it would seem that $SPY is expecting positive returns over the next 10-days!
We literally can’t seem to get $SPY and $QQQ to agree on anything anymore.
Next, with all of the pieces of the puzzle together, let’s put it together and let’s take a peek at
$SPY’s LR through time:




Very cool! It would seem that current LR are decreasing! Maybe worth keeping in mind as we
start the Weekly Chat!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        01/29/2024
Oh, you thought we had already started
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see continued persistence within the Inhibition Zone.




This is BUPO (of the Bullish variety) still. $QQQ greets the week with the same:




Moving from the Bullish expectations per VoEx (of course, with the usual caveats that this is
unstable bullish behavior, and as such, we should be on the look out for Divergence and VoEx
Spiking into the Propagation Zone) to the Gamma Hedging Environments, we meet, once again,
bleakness.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      01/29/2024
With local selling pressure, and a vanna-unstable orientation, it would appear that the market
will be heavily dependent on the presence of any eager-bid this week as selling pressure is
located all throughout.
This is a relatively bearish orientation but there is still a gamma-neutral pathway for $QQQ (and
maybe for $SPY but things are kind of “murky” there) in the $+/IV- trajectory.

Moving from this to the Dealer Long Puts, we see $SPY and $QQQ diverging once more in their
anticipations for the week a head:




The cautious $SPY put-sellers have closed their positions it would seem, while the $QQQ put-
sellers, it would seem, are entirely unphased.
This brings with it a bullish inclination, at least for $QQQ, It would seem the $SPY put-sellers are
forevermore forlorn.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         01/29/2024
                                       Moving from put-sellers to Gamma squeezes, its noted
                                       that there was a ~10% reduction in gamma squeezes
                                       throughout the week, a testament to GTMs large positive
                                       print it would seem. This large print, as we investigated in
                                       Weekly Chat 2024-01-22, however, suggests that
                                       downside is proximal (left: graph from Weekly Chat 2024-
                                       01-22 showing future returns per GTM).




So, with that in mind, let’s take a peek at GTM to see how this is faring:




GTM is still in the middle of its large positive spike – indicating that there is still a net flow of
long-gamma towards the market. This spike, however, seems to be winding down, and with it,
the expectation of near-term downside draws closer.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          01/29/2024
So, overall, this week we’ve seen:
         -   VoEx suggest BUPO (of the Bullish variety) – unstable bullish performance expected.
         -   Hedging environments are vanna-unstable and off no purchasing support unless $+
             but the raw-delta-hedging metrics suggests this will work to increase IV. This seems
             similar in configuration to the week that just passed.
         -   DLP behavior is incongruent across $SPY and $QQQ once more: $QQQ put sellers
             are starting the week out with grand expectations of $+ or IV-. This pre-disposes the
             market to a instability.
         -   GTM is continuing along its anticipated trajectory as it completes is large, positive
             print. The data suggest this is associated with 10-20 day decline in price as the
             number of gamma squeezes begins to grow rapidly.
         -   Some hand waving about a Liquidity Reserve metric which suggests that things are
             tentatively okay currently, but that $QQQ’s and $SPY’s LR are decreasing; this
             decrease is associated with future increase in price variance as well as future
             direction price changes (downside).


Quite the mixed bag of data! Thankfully, per VoEx, things are easy for me: I will take a tentatively
bullish outlook but with a close eye on VoEx (for VoEx Spiking into the P.Z. mainly), as well as
GTM/MWGS to monitor the flow of gamma.
So, that’s about it!


Happy trading –


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         01/29/2024
