                                  Weekly Chat 07/10/2023


                                         Main Points


    -   Overall, the data are printing bearish.
    -   Thorn in the side: VoEx has stalled at the Inhibition Zone once more with both $SPY
        and $QQQ; reminiscent of the prior stall.
    -   $SPY and $QQQ have VoEx Divergence once again.
    -   An elevated risk of VoEx rebounding in IZ and the subsequent resumption of BUPO in
        an otherwise bearish environment.


                                          SUMMARY


          VoEx on $SPY and $QQQ are finally in agreement, and not without their
          signature irony.

          Both are experiencing VoEx Divergence, and VoEx-trend is starting to leave
          the I.Z., this is traditionally associated with the start of a market-downturn
          but there are some data prints that prevent a full adherence to that rule:

              1) $QQQ’s hedging environment does have some purchase support
                 located $-/IV+
              2) GTM/MWGSC are predominately bullish.

          However, the remaining data suggest downside is in the near future, and
          should VoEx continue into stability and subsequently into the Propagation
          Zone (ideally by Monday!) then the market’s fate seems set.

          Otherwise, should VoEx rebound, its BUPO until proven otherwise
          (BUPOUPO).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         07/10/2023
                                               DETAILS




Last week, we left off with the idea that the “… rogue bullish wave is resting on unstable grounds.”,
and this week that instability seems to have shown itself with $SPY moving -1.07% week-over-
week, and $QQQ moving a staggering -0.86%.
So, for this Weekly Chat, we should review some of the more interesting data-developments that
happened throughout the week, and then spend the remaining sanity time waving our hands
around pontificating about the real and potential.
Pontifex

One of the concerns walking into last week was that there was minimal-to-no purchasing support
that would enter the $SPY and $QQQ hedging environments in the event of $-/IV+ moves, and we
can see the effects of this in $SPY and $QQQ’s Hedging Heatmaps from last week.




                                                          Curiously, despite having more selling
                                                          pressure, $QQQ saw less dynamic
                                                          movements throughout the week than
                                                          did $SPY, with $SPY moving 21% more
                                                          to the downside than $QQQ.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          07/10/2023
Throughout the week, it was interesting to watch
the put-sellers quickly alter course, especially
after a measly drop on $SPY of -0.15% on
Wednesday.
One can’t help but wonder if the put-selling was
less a show-of-force for bullish outlooks or rather
a theta-style play to capture gains from the short
week1. Thus, as the short week approached, the
selling of puts skyrocketed not because of
bullish outlooks but rather simply because it was
opportune for the theta-decay (theta chips away
at delta even when the market is closed!).

To investigate this, let’s quickly pivot over to a
market-wide scan for OTM Dealer Long Puts
creation and OTM Dealer Long Calls2.
If see an increase in both the number of OTM
DLPs and OTM DLCs, then this would suggest
the short week was prepared for with theta-
decay positioning (i.e.: no real price-direction
outlook).
But if we see a distinct difference between the
DLP or DLC behavior, then perhaps there was a
directional outlook.
So, let’s take a look:




1
  Since selling puts is profitable when the delta of the sold puts moves towards zero, an implicit way to benefit
from selling puts (or any options) is to sell them, and then wait for time to pass; as time passes, theta will bite
away at delta and thus, the put looses value and the put seller gains value.
2
  The data is being filled out in preparation for the update to the Market Scan and there’s no reason not to get a
sneak peek!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                         07/10/2023
A bit surprising! It would seem that market-wide 3, in preparation for the short week ahead, puts
were sold but calls seemed to have lagged some! As the week progressed and became more red,
we see this behavior switched: the DLPs began closing and the DLCs began opening. This seems
a pretty clear indication that there was directional anticipations that influenced the type of option
selling.

When I overlaid the changes in $SPY with the changes in DLP behavior, I was once again reminded
at the well-timed-nature of our put-selling friends:




3
    By Market-Wide I mean about 900 stocks for now.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          07/10/2023
So, it would seem that the surge of DLPs into the week and subsequent closure of them was apart
of the plan, as-it-were. This leaves our current state with a net-closure of DLPs as we enter the
next week in our journey through this life, which suggests the put sellers aren’t too eager to sell
puts currently: a relatively bullish finding.
Moving to VoEx, there are some curious changes as well. The first finding was VoEx Divergence
on $SPY and $QQQ on Monday the 3rd.
[Quick diversion: a lot of times, when we discuss VoEx Divergence we are describing the one with
VoEx-trend’s performance. However, on Monday I realized that perhaps I didn’t spend enough
(read: any) time reviewing the other, more subtle VoEx Divergence. ]

This VoEx Divergence is … fickly but its identification has proved quite useful several times, so it
is still worth keeping an eye out for.
Truthfully, I don’t usually “look for” this type of VoEx Divergence – but I can’t lie and say it doesn’t
catch my eye from time-to-time when it does pop up in nature, just as it did on Monday. Let’s take
a look:




The general theme for this type of VoEx Divergence is that:
       1) The price is typically experiencing a rapid appreciation,
       2) During this appreciation, the price and VoEx are “in-sync” (which, since VoEx doesn’t have
          any inclusion of price in its calculation, always makes me giddy); that means that typically
          when the price goes up, VoEx goes up, and when the price goes down, VoEx goes down.
       3) but then, a day occurs where the price rises and VoEx falls.
The Tier II Primer4 goes through an example or two of this type of VoEx Divergence, and it almost
always signals the end of the causative bull run, which is determined by the appearance of VoEx
Divergence.
Why? I’m not sure!


4
    Tier II – Practical Applications, pg. 23

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            07/10/2023
But in investigating this current showing of VoEx Divergence, one can’t help but notice that so far,
Monday’s close on $SPY ($443.790 has been the peak – now, its only been a few days so perhaps
a grain of salt is warranted, but for now, things are going “according to expectations”.

In a particularly joyous event, it would appear that $SPY and $QQQ have also started the more
familiar and gross5 VoEx Divergence as well - and, for our sake’s, at the same time!

                                                                          This, of course, is both
                                                                          exciting (as it may
                                                                          suggest that the bearish
                                                                          run we have been
                                                                          anticipating is becoming
                                                                          very proximal) but it is
                                                                          also       reminiscently
                                                                          cautious:      remember
                                                                          how VoEx paused at the
                                                                          Inhibition    Zone    on
                                                                          $QQQ, and $SPY at the
                                                                          Propagation Zone6 not
                                                                          but a week or two ago?
Yes – this feels familiar: a sense of dubious optimism due to VoEx’s lack of commitment.

Thus – due to the potential for a rebound and BUPO, and the potential magnitude of that
possibility, I think I will place VoEx in the “mixed” bucket for now. The data, by-and-large, are
bearish printing but I want to see some commitment from VoEx before I put a ring on some puts.




5
    Gross as in groß not gross.
6
    Weekly Chat 2023-06-23

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         07/10/2023
One of the first places we might look for more decisive data prints is towards the Gamma Hedging
Heatmaps:




$SPY has continued its stance from last week (vanna-oriented hedging heatmap) while $QQQ has
taken some time to reflect and, it would seem, to add some purchasing support in the $-/IV+
quadrant.
This – as usual with these two – is just at-odds enough to be frustrating (but thankfully not as
badly as a disagreeing VoEx).
Here, we see that both influence distributions suggest red is the name-of-the-game for the week
ahead, and although $QQQ does have purchasing support $-/IV+, if we wanted to go fishing for
some bearish data, one may note that in order to reach the purchasing support, IV and Price would
have to change in a way that the price falls more than IV rises (this is because the gamma neutral
zone essentially runs in a straight line down).
So, since we have nothing else to do, let’s take $QQQ and calculate the percent difference
between the prior day and current day’s close, the same for IV. This gives us a quasi-normalized
way to look at the two data, and allows the $:IV ratio to be computed.
On $QQQ above, we see that price would have to drop more than IV in order to reach purchasing
support – or in other words, the $:IV ratio would have to be greater than 1 (because $’s change
would have to be greater than IV’s
change). The question is, is this a
feasible expectation? And if so, how
often does it occur?
To answer, let’s graph the ratio we
computed above for dates when $QQQ
experiences a red day. The blue bars are
when the relative movement of $QQQ’s
price is greater than the relative
movement of IV – or in other words,
when the ratio is greater than 1.
We can see that this doesn’t happen very often (only about 8.7% of the time!).

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       07/10/2023
Notwithstanding, the presence of purchasing support on $QQQ sets the stage for potential
support should the market start to slide next week.
Perhaps something to keep an eye on as the week progresses.
Turning towards the MWGS-data
offers few distinct data prints as
well:
The 5-day rate-of-change of
Gamma Squeeze counts (gold line,
top graph), is peeking up once
again above zero – a bearish
finding for the market.

However, the MWGS-count trend
(top graph, black line) is negative
suggestive of a bullish outlook!
We can see from the counts
themselves that the current
numbers are above the 20-day
average (1,308 vs. 1,201), as well
as 10 day (1,290), and the 5 day
(1,227),
But despite all of this, GTM is
persistently negative! What a
trooper.
GTM doesn’t seem to be detecting
any incoming gamma squeezes in
the market – or at least in any
significant quantity, despite the
slow dripple of gamma squeezes
that have been passing through.



So far, things are looking mixed – a particularly uncomfortable outcome but one that reminds me
of the idea that mixed data are a mixed market. And the market doesn’t tend to enjoy being mixed.
To summarize the findings so far:
   -   VoEx has paused again simultaneously on $SPY and $QQQ during the end-stage of VoEx
       Divergence,
   -   The Hedging Heatmaps suggest negative outlooks for the week ahead but the purchasing
       support on $QQQ should probably be considered throughout the week, especially if $QQQ
       should find itself deep inside of the blue trenches,


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      07/10/2023
    -   DLP behavior suggests bearish outlooks for $SPY and $QQQ due to the lack of DLP
        opening, and
    -   MWGSC data are mixed: the “real-growth” is positive which is a bearish finding, but the
        growth-trend and GTM are showing more bullish outlooks.
For now, I think the most reasonable positioning is a slight bearish one – but until VoEx once
again makes up its mind, I will be reserved in its sizing and duration.
Potential
Now that that’s out of the way – let’s move to some experimental data!
The first experimental data print we should turn to is VoEx Variance – I’m not sure why, but lately
I’ve been really enjoying tinkering with 𝑉𝑉 2.
First, let’s look at the standard VoEx Variance view 7, showing the 40-day median VoEx Variance:




Despite the recent downturn in about half of the indexes (which we noted a few Weekly Chats
ago), the overall movement (black line) is positive. As a medium-to-long term data print, it is
suggestive that the instability noted throughout the market may have some more time to brew
before things get too entertaining.

From looking at this, I thought it might be worthwhile investigating a cleaner version that is
focused on how 𝑉𝑉 2 itself was changing, rather than 𝑉𝑉 2 itself – i.e.: the rate of change of 𝑉𝑉 2.


7
 Albeit slightly cleaned-up some. The ETFs are colored the same but have different line types to help distinguish
them, and an “overall” VoEx Variance (black line) has been added.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                       07/10/2023
This came from the observation that typically, 𝑉𝑉 2 seems to start its descent prior to the market
downturn (which, obviously, is good news for us) – but the concern is that this may only be readily
available after-the-fact. To help fill-in this blind-spot, the 20-day median rate-of-change for 𝑉𝑉 2 was
calculated and plotted.




There are three dominant down-trends that were strong enough to make it through the filtering
process: one in late 2018, one in late 2019, and one in mid-to-late 2021.
I put the resulting drawdown for $SPY during the highlighted boxes, and as we can see – this
seems pretty salient! The most recent data prints suggest that “up” is the name of the game, but
it may be worth noting that the most recent up-tick in VoEx Variance’s rate-of-change is quite …
exponential. Admittedly, I’m not sure what to make of that just yet but it does seem atypical, at
least from the data we can see here.

Speaking of data, these data were compiled from around 1 million observations of VoEx
throughout the market from 2018 to present, and so I think it is a rather robust observation. It will
be worth keeping an eye on these data as both the weeks progress and as I dig through the
numbers ensuring that 𝑉𝑉 2 and its companion, the rate-of-change of VoEx Variance (𝑑𝑑𝑉𝑉 2), are
statistically strong enough to officially join the DDS ecosystem.
Now, let’s move onto yet another fun developing toy! LDPM-Liquidity.
LDPM-Liquidity is a re-configuration of LDPM (along with a few other changes) that allows the
visualization of the liquidity levels directly! So far, I’ve been enjoying it and I would like to introduce
to you as a potential addition to LDPM. It still has to go through various stages of testing and

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                               07/10/2023
naturally a primer will have to be written (read: the LDPM primer has to be redone), but I think it
will be worth it.
I’ll share a screenshot of TradingView with $SPX on the daily timeframe with some particular
moments-in-time pointed out. I’ll let you look at it for as long as you like to see what observations
you can come up with.
The LDPM set up is the Fib LDPM, and the bottom chart is LDPM Liquidity. There are two colors:
blue for the “smaller” liquidity pool (LDPM-Ls ), and gold for the “larger” liquidity pool (LDPM-Lℓ).
There is a red dashed line that is set at zero: above it, and things are considered bullish, and below
it, things are considered bearish.
The height of the colored area is how much liquidity is in that pool.
Have a peek:




.
.

.
.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           07/10/2023
Notice anything fun? Here are some of my observations:




   1) The smaller liquidity pool (LDPM-Ls) (blue) is good at forecasting non-sustained market
      dips,
   2) The larger liquidity pool (LDPM-Lℓ) (gold) determines if LDPM cross-overs (price vs. the
      LDPM-smoothed at a 55 backwindow) are going to be sustained or rejected, and
      subsequently it is a good predictor of overall market direction.
To synthesize these observations, we can see the first four blue bars show times when the LDPM-
Ls is below zero (the red dashed line), and subsequently market dips occurred but during these
Price-LDPM crossover attempts, LDPM-Lℓ was well-above zero, and so there was little threat for
persistent downside (as it was likely that the crossover attempt would be rejected due to how
much liquidity was “still left” in the bigger liquidity pool).
This, however, changed as we approach the gold rectangle – notice that LDPM-Lℓ had been
reducing steadily and had arrived at the zero-line, and so we see that the price tested and
surpassed LDPM-55 for a bearish crossover, and the rest is history.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     07/10/2023
Pretty nifty!
It is worth noting that this new algorithm also works on smaller timeframes (depending on the
overall liquidity levels on the equity). Check it out; here’s $SPX on the 5minute chart:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   07/10/2023
$SPX on the 1 minute chart:




$BTC on the 1 minute:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat   07/10/2023
The key takeaway is that I think this can be a very helpful tool for both when there is an apparent
crossover attempt forming (so as to be able to gain confidence as to whether the crossover will
be a failure or success), as well as identifying market “dips” that are expected to recover versus
larger-scale market downturns – and it can provide this benefit at almost all timeframes!
Additionally, we can see from the $SPX graph above on the daily, that LDPM-Ls is nearing the
zero line – so it may be worthwhile to brace for a potential market dip, ultimately leading to an
LDPM-55 crossover test (bearish)!
So – that’s all I have for you guys this week.

Happy trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        07/10/2023
