                                   Weekly Chat 12/18/2023


                                         Main Points


   -   VoEx remains in a Bullish-until-Proven-otherwise configuration despite its recent
       “spike-like” behavior.
   -   Hedging Environments remain much the same: diffuse, light, proximal selling pressure
       with a vanna-unstable orientation.
   -   MWGS data shows a persistent near-zero growth-rate with a week-over-week
       reduction in the number of gamma squeezes. GTM is moving into bearish territory as
       the flow of long-gamma-that’s-moving-into-the market is rapidly diminishing.
   -   Put-selling has reached a net-removal state as OTM dealer long puts are being closed
       out for the week a head – a potent bearish data print.
   -   Overall, despite VoEx’s spike-like behavior, until it breeches the Propagation Zone,
       Bullish-until-proven-otherwise is maintained.



                                          SUMMARY



           Last week, $QQQ’s put-selling foretold a reasonable green week for the
           tech index, which was reasonably followed by $SPY.

           In response, it would seem VoEx has spiked southward on both $SPY
           and $QQQ, however, for neither index, VoEx has not moved out of the
           Inhibition Zone. This, then, reinforces Bullish-until-proven-otherwise.

           Hedging environments remain much the same as before: unstable vanna
           orientations with light, and diffuse selling pressure along with a gamma-
           neutral path extending in the $+/IV- direction.

           MWGS data is mostly unremarkable other than the ~13% reduction in the
           number of gamma squeezes throughout the week. GTM has just dipped
           into bearish territory with both prints, signaling the start of a shift in
           flows.

           Overall, BUPO (of the Bullish variety) is maintained but the data continue
           to suggest the “O” is proximal.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          12/18/2023
                                                     DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with a renewed sense of BUPO™ (of the Bullish variety). This week, $SPY
moved +1.98% and $QQQ +3.36%
Since those are some pretty hefty numbers, let’s normalize them (normalized to the Weekly
EPR). In this way, we can directly compare $SPY and $QQQ’s performance to each other while
still accounting for the relative volatilities of each stock. With this, we get a 0.62% weekly move
for $SPY and a 1.98% (!) weekly move for $QQQ.
So, in comparison to how the market was expecting, $SPY moved quite-less while $QQQ moved
quite more! This performance paves the way to the initial ponder of the week: did the DLP-
sellers know $QQQ was about to move greater than the market was expecting? And if so, how ?
Additionally, why wasn’t this performance seen in $SPY? Not only did $SPY under-perform
$QQQ both in absolute terms and when taking into consideration the market’s expectations, but
it also did not see a massive surge in sold puts last week! How curious.
We can visualize these weekly moves and the relative difference in performance between $SPY
and $QQQ quite distinctly within the Hedging Environments:




Both $SPY and $QQQ chugged-along up, eating up any of the soft-selling pressure present.
Overall, nothing too exciting, and so, with last week behind us, and next week in front of us and
quickly approaching1, let’s quickly review the data for the week ahead.
Did you know that time is an endless spiral?
It is true. I’ve seen it.


1
  Technically, we can’t tell if time is approaching quickly or slowly, as we can’t sense changes in time’s velocity but
let’s assume for brevity that time is indeed approaching quicker than usual for us right now, and, as such, it is
applicable to say “Thus, with the last week behind us, and next week in front of us and quickly approaching … “,
otherwise the statement would be not only meaningless but in a relativistic sense, quite objectively wrong.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                          12/18/2023
What is also true, and what I have also seen, is this week’s VoEx prints:
Above we see $SPY’s VoEx. At first, one might get excited in thinking that the recent behavior is
akin to a VoEx Spike. And indeed, it is very enticing to, say, start opening short positions in
anticipation of VoEx continuing to the Propagation Zone, but with recent lessons about
anticipating data moves fresh in mind, for now: VoEx remains within the Inhibition Zone, and as
such, BUPO™ (of the Bullish variety) continues its reign.




This spike-without-leaving-the-Inhibition-Zone event is exemplified further in $QQQ’s VoEx
(above) whereby we also see a sharp migration southward for VoEx, yet it is quite removed from
the Propagation Zone for now.
So, per VoEx, things are getting spicy, but BUPO is still the outlook.

Should VoEx continue into the Propagation Zone, I will find it time to start moving into short
positions once more.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      12/18/2023
Now that there’s a general direction in mind, let’s see if this outlook jives with the current
hedging environments.




Now, you may well be tempted to be awed but such a dynamic and intense hedging
environment, filled like a mosaic of bids and asks, but let’s not get too energetic.
Mute and diffuse selling pressure located all around the current spot and IV for $SPY and $QQQ
(as can be seen above).
These hedging environments offer no support in the event of a $-/IV+ week but also stand to
offer no real selling pressure (and thus, no real resistance) in the event of another $+/IV- week.
So, all-in-all, pretty benign.
Moving from individual hedging environments to macro ones, let’s take a peek at the MWGS
data.
Let’s start with the growth curves and current counts:




Despite the daily increase, the week-over-week change in the number of gamma squeezes
stands at an appreciable 13%, which isn’t too shabby.
Growth rates (above, left) are negative and nearing-zero; a finding that isn’t too surprising if you
consider the market has the lowest amount of gamma squeezes that it has seen in 2 years! Its
worth noting that 2021 spent the majority of its time in a sub-700 gamma squeeze environment.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         12/18/2023
In anticipating future gamma squeeze changes, let’s consult GTM (both):




Above we see both versions of GTM – on the left is the original version2 which is showing GTM
migrating northward (in this version, that means more gamma squeezes incoming) and on the
right is the updated version which shows GTM migrating southward3 (which, in this version,
means that more gamma squeezes are incoming).
In both, the rolling-EMA hasn’t quite breeched the other side, but the individual GTM prints have.

Last week, one of the indications of moving from an overall-bullish outlook to an overall-bearish
outlook was a growth in the number of gamma squeezes. This week provided no such prints,
but GTM is suggesting that these prints may start appearing relatively soon, should GTM
continue measuring incoming short-gamma flows towards the market.
Thus, for maintenance of BUPO, we have VoEx suggesting Bullish-until-Proven-otherwise, and a
hedging environment that isn’t poised to offer much resistance. This BUPO-outlook, however, is
continuously tempered by an unsupportive hedging environment (in the event of a $-/IV+ week),
along with GTM prints that are growing increasingly suggestive of a growing incoming short-
gamma wave, and as such, brings with it a future expectation for gamma squeeze growth and
market downside.
Thankfully, we don’t have to pick a side just yet, as we can visit our put-selling friends to see if
they can offer a bit of a tie-breaker:




2
  I swear its on the list of things to officially upgrade. What? Sometimes it takes a minute even though you already
have the code that should present as an easily integrated object! But alas, it hasn’t been. Its just how things work, I
don’t make the rules, I’m stuck with this brain as much as you are.
3
  The confluence between the two is quite nice considering their algorithms are pretty different!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                          12/18/2023
It seems they have!

Not only has the enthusiasm seen from $QQQ’s put-selling completely reversed, $SPY’s put-
selling never happened! This divergence in cohesion between $SPY’s and $QQQ’s put-sellers is
quite pronounced here, and this behavior isn’t all that typical!
Nonetheless, it would seem that no one is expecting profitability in the form of a $+ or IV- move.
I would imagine that it is likely due to the extremely low IV levels – the potential returns aren’t
worth the risk of exposure if IV rebounds even slightly.
So, overall, the week starts with BUPO but with a tempered enthusiasm (once more) due to
GTM, put-selling behavior, and the introduction of une petit entrée de VoEx Spikes4 to entice our
appetites for the real entre 5 end of BUPO (of the Bullish Variety).
Should VoEx continue its migration towards the Propagation Zone (either via Spike or just a
rapid movement over 2-3 days), gamma squeeze counts increase, and GTM start distinctly
printing bearish prints, I will consider it time to pull the trigger on downside.
Once that occurs, the next step will be to try to navigate the downwards currents: are we to have
a rapid correction or a repeat of 2022?

Perhaps next week we’ll be able to dive into that question a bit deeper. Until then,


Happy Trading –


Justin




4
    French for: “A small VoEx Spike appetizer”.
5
    American for “Main course”; not some small “appetizer”.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         12/18/2023
