                                  Weekly Chat 07/01/2024


                                        Main Points


    -   VoEx remains oriented towards near-term downside.
    -   Gamma Hedging Environments offer little support in the event of IV+/$-. $SPY presents
        with local and diffuse selling pressure.
    -   Put-selling on $SPY is diminishing and remains near-zero on $QQQ.
    -   Market-wide gamma squeeze data are undisturbed.
    -   Continued near-term downside expectation.



                                         SUMMARY



          Last week’s downside expectations manifested (just so), but this week it
          appears the data suggest much the same outlook.

          VoEx Divergence has replaced Bullish-Until-Proven-Otherwise (BUPO),
          bringing with it the traditional downside expectation. This sentiment is
          echoed within neo-VoEx, wherein VoEx-daily is flirting with the
          Propagation Zone.

          Put-sellers are not selling as many puts as before – including those on
          $QQQ; who never really started.

          The MWGS data show near-zero reading for growth, and GTM. This
          suggests that the near-term downside is well-isolated for now.

          Overall, last week’s outlook is rolled to this week: localized downside
          expected.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    07/01/2024
                                                DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we left off with bearish ideations, and, with remarkably unremarkable moves, the
market ended week-over-week with $SPY down 0.05% and $QQQ down 0.03%! Behold:




We can see that $QQQ became quite close to falling into the bad-lands (the selling pressure
located spot-down; almost reached on 2024-06-24) and thereafter a sluggish market recovery
played out for the remainder of the week.
Last week, the l’origine of the bearish outlooks came from the evidence suggesting the market
was going to experience a near-term dip. Well – the market technically dipped (?), so, our goal
this week is to look for evidence that the dip is dippethed or for evidence that perhaps this week’s
stalling action was a test of attrition, of which downside is the still-likely resolution. Let’s see what
we can uncover.
Aufdecken
To start decking this puzzle auf, let’s take a peek at VoEx:




As the market move out of Bullish-until-proven-otherwise by-way of VoEx Divergence (notice
VoEx-trend is decreasing since mid-06/2024 while price has risen; for both $SPY and $QQQ),
this introduces our first piece of data suggesting the near-term dip is still on-going.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                             07/01/2024
Investigating neo-VoEx suggests the same:




$SPY’s VoEx-daily (left graph), has bounced off of the Propagation Line, whereas $QQQ’s found
its way therein earlier in the week. Both indicate signs of “weakness”. The good news for now,
however, is that our medium-, to longer-term outlooks remain steadfast: since VoEx is within
stability for $SPY and $QQQ, the outlook remains bullish; despite the growing evidence for
continued near-term downside.
So, from VoEx, it would seem that the near-term downside risk remains prominent.
With that in mind, let’s see how the hedging environments are poised to handle potential
downside:




Not particularly well!
$SPY presents with local and diffuse selling pressure, along with the only gamma-neutral zone
being reachable with a rather drastic decrease in IV (good luck); $QQQ conversely has local
purchasing support, however, gamma neutrality is gulfed by either reasonable selling pressure (in
the event of IV-), or diminishing purchasing support (in the event of IV+).
So – the hedging environments seem well poised to accelerate any downside brewing in the
markets.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      07/01/2024
What about our put-selling friends? What do they think?




                                                                   Theta certainly helped the $SPY
                                                                   crew out in the week prior, and
                                                                   this seems to have incurred
                                                                   some loss-of-confidence in the
                                                                   put-selling     paradigm,    as
                                                                   evidenced by the behavior
                                                                   latter-half reduction.




                                                                   Our $QQQ friends demonstrate
                                                                   once more that not all put-
                                                                   sellers are the same. The $QQQ
                                                                   put-sellers were unphased with
                                                                   the week’s lack of moves, and
                                                                   they continue to remain
                                                                   inactive for preparation for the
                                                                   week ahead.




Taken together, this suggests reduced confidence in put-selling-profitability (via $SPY’s behavior),
and continued lack-of-confidence overall (via $QQQ’s behavior).

A nod towards downside.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         07/01/2024
We can try to peek at how systemic this weakness appears to be via the Market-Wide Gamma
Squeeze data, since it surveys the gamma-land of all stocks in the market. In doing so, we find:
Not much!
Gamma-growth (top graph), is still near-
zero, and although GTM is negative, its
pretty “just-so”.
So, for now, it appears that in aggregate, the
market appears well insulated from any
gamma-mediated shocks, but, should the
week dip, it will be worth keeping an eye out
as market participants may be apt to start
purchasing puts (and thus, adding negative
gamma to the stack).
So, all-in-all, it appears that the downside-
expectation is extant, but there is minimal
evidence to suggest a prolonged or
significant downside.
Now, let’s talk about DDS!
So, basically: I tried to avoid it, but I can’t.
Things have to be written in Rust.
This will extend the time somewhat on the
next round of processing, but I very much
so think you’ll be pleased with the results.
I will keep you updated!


Happy Trading –



Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     07/01/2024
