                                      Weekly Chat 2025-12-22


                                             Main Points



       -    VoEx remains in the P.Z. for $QQQ and even-just-so for $SPY. VoEx-daily for both
           were rejected by the Propagation Zone boundary line while attempting to return.
       -   Gamma-hedging environments showcase wide-spread purchasing support
           available to $SPY and $QQQ.
       -   LS&T assessment of ES shows free skies northward until about 1.5%, thereabouts
           its poised to meet several LT resistances. The EPR for $SPY the week ahead is
           ~1.5%.
       -   Overall, likely drift upwards ~1.5% for a santa rally.

                                              SUMMARY


           Last week’s prophecy was partially fulfilled, but payment is still due in full,
           nonetheless.

           This week, a Santa rally is expected as VoEx-daily has been refused admittance
           into the Propagation Zone, laying the groundwork for a quick bounce and VoEx-
           daily spike. VoEx itself remains in the P.Z. still.

           The gamma-hedging environments showcase local and quite substantial
           purchasing support located throughout for both $SPY and $QQQ.

           LS&T assessment shows overall bullish liquidity, in-line with a short-term rally,
           while several timeframes showcase a LT resistance ceiling located about 1.5%
           north of current spot. This coincidentally coincides with the expected-price range
           for $SPY in the week ahead.

           Overall, the data suggest a short-week with low-volume and a persistent trinkle of
           purchasing support to levitate the market gently northward, back towards the still-
           darkening clouds above.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                  2025-12-22 to 2025-12-26
                                              DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with bearish-leaning manifestations in an otherwise chaotic setting, and for
the most part this seems to have been experienced. We can note this in the heatmaps below:




Quite the dip-into-a-recovery! Its hard to say who-lead-who in this jumble but suffice to say, the
net move was a slight reduction in IV across the board with swings somewhere in between. This
week, our task is not so straightforward as the short-week and threat of Santa rally might need to
be considered along with the data. Overall, the goal is to look for signs that refute our expectations
of continued downside overall while mingling evermore in this quagmire of variance, and then to
assess their collective magnitude, should we find any, lest they disrupt our longer-term downside
expectations.

Let’s get started!
Short Week? or are you just sad to see me?
Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2025-12-22 to 2025-12-26
A cheeky pause! Just prior to $SPY and $QQQ’s VoEx-dailies re-entering the Propagation Zone,
they’ve suddenly rebounded! This, thankfully, hasn’t disrupted the overall outlook provided by
VoEx (which is showing continued downside expectations [albeit $SPY’s having made quite the
journey to the contrary]) – it does add some credence to the little elf on our shoulders, feverishly
prating on about what the snow in the north pole is really made out with intermittent mentions of
a Santa rally.
Now, should one want to have a Santa rally, notwithstanding the disruptive nature to my our future
outlooks, then one would also want to see VoEx-daily moving northward – which is, should one
take note, exactly what is underway.
Does this cement our outlooks firmly in terra ferma or any other sort of puddy? Not quite – but it
does plant us not-delicately thereabouts. Let’s take a look at the hedging environments to see
which way the wind is blowing this week:




North! And perhaps strongly enough indeed to plant us more firmly into terra planta – both $SPY
and $QQQ are well inundated in purchasing support – suggesting that the only direction hedging
is going to be pushing stocks is straight up!
It is worth considering also that short week’s are usually quite “light” in volume, and as such,
hedging tends to have a bit mor “punch” than usual, and there seems to be no evidence to refute
such an eventuality this week. Should the market slowly drift upwards, we can be reasonably
certain that this is “underway” (as well as slightly lower-than-average volumes).
Overall, these data do indeed point to a Santa rally – and so let’s quickly check the LS/T data to
see if we can identify any major resistances, but if not, let’s expect a nice little ride up and re-
assess next year!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-12-22 to 2025-12-26
Some spice! The only proximal, major ceiling seems to be LT7 on the 144-minute (for finding
ceilings this is a tedious one as LT7 is usually a hefty boy which translates to `don’t bet against`
but in this instance, it seems like that’s exactly what we might have to do! The 90-minute (top-
left) shows a ceiling at $6,919 at LT6 which is quite a bit north (and, should one get close to the
screen, the start of profit-taking initiating!), along with LT5 on the 987-minute (bottom-left)
thereabouts the same levels.

Between the 90-, 144-, and 987-minute, it seems ~$6,900 (~1.5%+) reasonable. In looking a tad
more into the data like a freak, we find that $SPY’s expected price range for the week is ~1.5%!
What luck!
This seems like a reasonable place to stop this week before we confuse ourselves in the detail.
Downside is still expected overall, given VoEx’s placement on $SPY and $QQQ, but near-term
outlooks point towards a short, uplifting week as minimal-volume-empowered-gamma-hedging
will feed a continuous stream of bid into the algorithms.
Happy holidays, and happy trading!
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-12-22 to 2025-12-26
