                                     Weekly Chat 2026-02-02


                                            Main Points


       -   VoEx remains in the Propagation zone for $SPY and $QQQ.
       -   Hedging heatmaps showcase purchasing support for both $SPY and $QQQ.
       -   Market-wide gamma squeeze data has experienced a growth and the predictive
           data suggest growth-rate will increase in the future.
       -   LS&T study demonstrates wide-spread bearish liquidity with multiple over-head LT
           resistances.

                                             SUMMARY


           Last week the idea was turbulence and downside and the week before us appear
           similar.

           VoEx remains in the Propagation zone for $SPY and $QQQ, while VoEx-daily (for
           both) have exited stability.

           Said VoEx behaviors coїncide with supportive hedging heatmaps for both $SPY
           and $QQQ. $QQQ’s heatmap demonstrates a vanna-dependent orientation with
           diminishing purchasing support in the event of 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +.

           The market-wide gamma squeeze data show a modest increase in the week,
           particularly of note given the predominately flat week. The predictive MWGS data
           suggest the future will see a faster rate of GS growth than is currently present.

           LS&T data showcases persistent bearish liquidity and multiple LT over-heads.
           Downside support appears to be around 8% down at LT-6 on the weekly.

           Overall, turbulence and continued downside is expected.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2026-02-02 to 2026-02-06
                                                 DETAILS




Hello everyone! Last week we had visions of turbulence that would ultimately resolve to the
downside. This is exactly what happened! In fact, the idea last week was that the purchasing
support present would help push above the LT asks but that ultimately this seemed like “… a stall
before continued downside”.
Indeed!
$SPY managed a 0.40% move to the affirm while $QQQ moved 0.14% to the downside. These
moves can be visualized below with the hedging heatmaps:




Not too shabby!
Thus, this week, the goal is simple: investigate if the downside shall start on the morrow or if
continued market obstinance will usher in another bounce.
So, without further ado, let’s get started!
To do an ado is to be an ado

Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                for the week of         2026-02-02 to 2026-02-06
For $SPY and $QQQ, both VoExes reside still within the Bearish Zone, while VoEx-daily resides in
the neutral-zone. Its worth mentioning that VoEx-daily for both recently experienced a VoEx-spike
with the early-week appreciation, but one that didn’t move far northward (in fact, $SPY’s appears
to have been stuck on the boundary to the bullish zone!).
Overall, these data still point towards downside – marginally on the near term (it would be most
ideal if VoEx-daily had moved back into the Propagation Zone but alas), and definitely on the
longer-term.
Thus, with sights set predominately on the downside, let’s check out the hedging environments
to see how the market might assist or desist our intentions:




Desist it would seem! With purchasing support located locally for both $SPY and $QQQ, and with
purchasing support located spot-down, the hedging activity expected for the week ahead appears
to be predominately in the bullish-flow camp.
It is worth mentioning that $QQQ is in a bit more of a pickle than its counterpart $SPY given the
diminishing purchasing should IV increase. Something to keep in mind as the week progresses
(i.e.: the bullish would likely much prefer that $QQQ’s IV decrease!).
Moving onwards to the market-wide gamma squeeze data, we find a modest increase in gamma
squeeze (not shown) from 743 to 858 (+15%); a modest increase. This is paired with the predictive
data which has just poked
into positive territory!
This suggests that in the
future, the rate of growth of
gamma squeezes will be
greater than it is today! Last
week, we mentioned these
data should be monitored
for such an event (which
would       suggest       that
downside is still nearing)
and so it would appear as
though downside is still
appearing!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of               2026-02-02 to 2026-02-06
Lastly, let’s check in with LS&T for ES to see how liquidity conditions are:




On the 90-minute, bearish liquidity with LT resistances located immediately spot-up. Worth noting
that the “scoop” that is underway after the most recent Aggressive Ask (on the 30th AH) has been
“disrespected” – that is to say, price has fallen below LT-1 and LT-2 – suggestive that the rest of
the scoop will be unsuccessful. This brings doubt to ES’s ability to mount above LT resistances.
Curiously on the 144-minute (top-right), we find the start of an aggressive bid with bearish
liquidity. The bearish rejoice here is that even with the early signs of an aggressive bid, liquidity
has maintained its bearish stance and spot has failed to overtake LT-6 & 7.
On the 987-minute, we find bearish liquidity with the early signs of an aggressive ask (all LTs are
pointed upwards but just so ). This gives bearish ideations as LT-7 is once-again tested for
support.
Lastly, on the weekly, we have bullish liquidity but another week where spot was unable to regain
ground above LT-5.

Overall, this suggests a weakened market evermore – with evidence of aggressive bids that are
failing to bring bullish liquidity or mount above LT resistance and a wide-spread bearish liquidity,
it would seem conditions are well poised towards the downside for the future ahead.
With regards to where said downside would be, for now, we only have the weekly view to give us
a concrete floor, and said floor sits currently at $6,485.20 (-8ish%).



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2026-02-02 to 2026-02-06
So, overall, downside seems the most prudent outlook for the week head: VoEx remains in the
Propagation Zone, the predictive MWGS suggests growth will continue to increase, LS&T
showcase wide-spread bearish liquidity and LT ceilings once more; the only bullish reprieve
comes by-way of the hedging heatmaps, of which said purchasing support is partially dependent
on $QQQ’s IV not dropping too much, should it find the time to do so at all.
Turbulence and downside ahead –


Happy Trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat         for the week of             2026-02-02 to 2026-02-06
