                                  Weekly Chat 07/22/2024


                                        Main Points


    -   VoEx has moved significantly towards the Propagation Zone.
    -   Hedging Environments are not supportive in the event of downside pressure.
    -   Put-selling has ceased and reversed.
    -   VoEx Variance data show coalescence and collapse throughout the market.
    -   Short-term expectations of increased price variance towards the downside with
        growing expectation of extension to medium-term.

                                         SUMMARY



          Recent outlooks have focused on short-term downside with medium and
          longer-term upside. The current data suggests that the medium-term is
          now in-view for inclusion in bearish ideologies.

          VoEx has plummeted into the Propagation Zone, indicating a significant
          risk for near-term, greater-than-expected downside. The magnitude of the
          move also suggests prolonging of the time-horizon for downside.

          Hedging environments are poised to offer little support, should the market
          need a reliable influx of bid in the coming days.

          Put selling has both stopped and reversed, indicating little-to-no
          expectation for profitability via selling puts.

          VoEx Variance has shown the long-awaited “coalescence and collapse”,
          further bringing the exclusion of the medium-term horizon for downside
          into question.

          Overall, the data seem to have shifted in severity, and, along with that,
          downside is both expected on the near and medium time horizons.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     07/22/2024
                                              DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we left off with some ominous feelings of downside, with thoughts to monitor the
situation for “extension”.
Well – with this week’s performance (as measured via $SPY’s weekly move of -1.96% and $QQQ’s
moves of -3.96%), it seems wise to do a rather thorough look-through of things; just to ensure
nothing wonky is going on.
Starting first, and as usual when we have big moves, let’s look at the changes in these prices
“normalized to” the market’s expectations (as measured via last week’s 5-day EPR). This will tell
us just how much these moves extended beyond the market’s expectation (and, as such, its
pricings).
We can see these values below:

              Stock                 T+5 EPR             T+5 Realized             Ratio
                                      (%)                 (abs. %)

     $SPY                            ±1.63                   1.96                  1.63

     $QQQ                            ±1.82                   3.96                  2.17



With a value of 2.17, it tells us that the market underpriced $QQQ’s future volatility (via IV) by a
whole week, and then some!

For us, thankfully, there was some suggestion that this may occur, as last week there was
consideration for the “…bleak nothingness…” that was present in the $-/IV+ quadrant of $QQQ’s
hedging environment. We can see how this unfolded below:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           07/22/2024
$QQQ’s swift departure from any hopes of purchasing support was noted by the 16th, whereupon
it appeared the index did not have sufficient bid to absorb the ask present or bring IV lower. The
consequence was capitulation to selling pressure, bringing things right on down.
If we “zoom in” to conditions on the 17th, to see what things looked like from within, we see that,
well, things had not improved as the market shifted towards it early-established gamma-neutrality
destination. It appears the journey was met with ever-more introduction of selling pressure! We
can glimpse this journey with Monday and Tuesday’s heatmaps, below:




Thus, it seems reasonable to say that the introduction of persistent and wide-spread selling
pressure to $QQQ was not ideal for those looking for bullish returns to the end of the week. It also
suggests, perhaps more concerningly, that there is very little bid in the market!
Note that on Monday, the market fell into purchasing support, which worked to stall price action
somewhat (Tuesday moved ~0.80%, within EPR), but when the data was measured at the end of
Tuesday, we see all off that purchasing support had been digested and recycled as selling
pressure.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         07/22/2024
The main goal this week, seems to be that since the market was unable to find a bid this week,
let’s see if we can find one for next week in the data.
So, let’s get started!

Hello?
Let’s first get a feel for the overall conditions with VoEx (neo-VoEx, that is):




Well – quite the dramatic showing from VoEx. Occasionally, we lament that VoEx is not as
opinionated as one may like, but it seems such a complaint cannot be levied so easily now!
VoEx-daily has moved remarkably quickly and robustly into the Propagation Zone – a sign of near
and imminent downside. Of particular note, the downwards trajectory of VoEx-daily was quite
sufficient on both $SPY and $QQQ to move VoEx just as dramatically towards the Propagation
zone.
The significance here is that, you’ll remember from last week (and the 2 weeks prior), we’ve been
measuring this expected downside for signs of “extension”, or, signs that it would last longer than
just an event for the “short-term”. One of the considerations that said short-term outlook was a
reasonable outlook was that VoEx was well-housed within stability – regardless of VoEx-daily’s
short-term activities.
Well – now we see this isn’t the case! Or, at least, the argument is less strong. As VoEx nears its
exit from stability, the threat of the downside extending from the short-term into the medium-term
time-horizons corporealizes.
Thus, VoEx seems opinionated for significant risk to downside. Let’s move to the hedging
environments to see how this might be handled in the days ahead.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        07/22/2024
Mixed bag – but not the most promising for any looking for robust support.
$SPY and $QQQ seem to have swapped places somewhat, but with $QQQ showing less wide-
spread purchasing support in the lower-left quadrant than did $SPY last week. This leaves
conditions poised against bullish performance in the week ahead.
$SPY’s diffuse selling pressure appears poised to offer a $-/IV+ week, one which would work to
remove purchasing support from $QQQ. Additionally, $QQQ’s pathway towards gamma-neutrality
via IV- is impeded by selling pressure.
Thus, it seems as though the hedging environment will offer little support against downside, and
may even contribute to it as the week progresses.
So, the data seem pretty robustly bearish. Let’s take a peek at if our put-selling friends are also
seeing bearish futures ahead.




Quite the drop in put-selling behavior! Some up-tick in behavior for the weekend-ahead on $QQQ,
but we can see that the near-zero behavior is maintained and $SPY’s increase in put-selling has
ceased entirely.
This is a pretty stark point towards anticipated downside for the week ahead.
So far, the data point towards continued downside on the near-term, which naturally works to
extend our prior anticipation from short-term to medium-term, but do the data suggest that from
now the downturn is still expected to be short-term, or do we need to extend our current views to
the medium-term as well? To determine that, let’s continue on.

Our next stop would be the MWGS data – but frankly, there’s not much going on there right now!
So let’s move onwards to a less-viewed piece of data: VoEx Variance.
A quick recap: the graphs you are about to see are strange – this is by design, as the view the
VoEx Variance provides is pretty cool. The idea is that we look at every stock in the market, and
then group those stocks by their respective index. Then, for each index, we measure how different
all of the VoExes are behaving, and, where they are performing this behavior.
This gives us a intra-index view; the idea is that when the value of this intra-index view is high, this
means that within the index, there’s a lot of “turbulence”, as a lot of the VoEx values are very
distinct from one another and very “erratic”. The converse is when all of the VoEx values within


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            07/22/2024
an index are similar (i.e.: all in Stability or all in Propagation Zone), then the value for the intra-
index variance is low, and it means all of the VoExes are “in agreement” within that sector.
Additionally, each of the three panels represents each of the three zones (Stability, Middle, and
Propagation Zone). If there are dots, this means that the average VoEx value for that index
(specified by color), is within that zone.

On the graph, these values are the y-axis for each of the three graphs. Let’s take a look:




Those familiar with VoEx Variance might well give a very large head-tilt to the current data. Long-
ago through the mists of time, VoEx Variance was monitored for “ coalescence and collapse of
𝑉𝑉 2 values” (see Weekly Chat 2023-10-16). Now, admittedly, this version is updated. The
consequence of this update is that this collapse seems rather more remarkable and well defined
than did the collapse noted in 2023-10-16.
The consequence of these data? Well, the first is that perhaps we (and by we I mean you),
shouldn’t have taken so long to look at these data again, and the second, is that I think these are
sufficiently robust to extend the downside from the short-term, to the medium-term with these
data.
The data show that VoExes throughout the market are becoming more in-agreement (the VoEx
Variance values are decreasing), and they are doing so in remarkable unison and local! This
means that the market is, by and large, starting to behave as a singular unit.
Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            07/22/2024
The traditional interpretation is, well, let’s take a peek at the data from 2020 in the middle panel.
The anticipated trajectory is “collection and decrease in 𝑉𝑉 2values until data appears in
Propagation Zone, at which time, significant downside”. It would appear that we are encroaching
on step two: data appearing within the Propagation Zone.
So, for now, it’s unfortunate these data take so long to calculate – but it something to definitely
keep an eye on in the coming days and weeks.
The take-away this week is that downside is expected, review of the data suggest that the
extension of this downside may well be appropriate from the short-term to the medium-term.
Close inspection of VoEx and LDPM/LDPS for the short-term maneuvers with a closer eye on
VoEx, MWGS and VoEx Variance to help guide future planning throughout the week(s) ahead.


It may get interesting!


Happy trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          07/22/2024
