-


                                  Weekly Chat 09/05/2023


                                        Main Points


    -   VoEx is becoming increasingly erratic while also moving aggressively into the
        Inhibition Zone, supportive for a tentative BUPO outlook,
    -   Heatmaps are unsupportive in the event of a $-/IV+ move,
    -   DLP sellers are cooling off and appear less eager than before,
    -   MWGS data is relatively benign despite GTM suggesting movement towards positive
        points,
    -   𝑉𝑉 2 shows weak but present evidence of a collapse initiating.
    -

                                         SUMMARY



          There is evidence this week, that the performance provoked substantial
          instability by way of VoEx moving aggressively back into the I.Z. for both
          $SPY and $QQQ.

          This, along with the threat of mean reversion (due to a ~51% greater-than-
          EPR movement for the week), adds substantial bearish tones to the
          unsupportive Gamma Hedging Heatmaps which demonstrate no available
          purchasing support in the event of any $-/IV+ moves.

          The MWGS data is definitely any bullish, demonstrating a recent reduction
          in gamma squeeze throughout the market. GTM seems mixed but
          technically supportive of the MWGS-data’s view.

          𝑉𝑉 2 is demonstrating a reduced rate-of-growth, with more data popping up
          within the Propagation Zone – concerns that the early stages of a 𝑉𝑉 2
          collapse may be underway.

          Overall, a highly unstable environment that suggests a difficult trading
          future.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     09/05/2023
                                           DETAILS




Last week, we started the Weekly Chat with “What a week!”, which, in hindsight, may have been
erroneously applied to last week, because this week – what a week!
To investigate this “what-a-week” week, let’s quickly review some of what the going-ons
throughout the market, turn our attention towards the futures, and then ruminate on delayed
progress.
Let’s get started!
[Note: The data are quite messy this week! If there’s any part of my ramblings that don’t quite
make sense, please don’t hesitate to reach out.]
Last Week
With bullish leanings, $SPY moved 2.55% throughout the week, along with its companion, $QQQ,
who mustered a reasonable 3.73%. Moves that exceeded the weekly EPR by 49%, and 54%,
respectively.
These moves were accompanied by some bold data prints throughout the week as well: DLP
growth continued; MWGS-data continued to decline; GTM prints continued to be negative, and so
all seemed right and bullish in the world.
The only pause to the upwards trajectory seems to have been some relatively minor selling
pressure, as we can see with the Hedging Heatmaps:




Both $SPY and $QQQ experienced an initially quick acceleration, pushed from purchasing
support, into gamma neutrality, and then stalled.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     09/05/2023
This reminds me of our conversations from last week: “…it would seem the price the price
insensitive ask chews threw any eager bid present and quickly drops down to the organic bid,
resulting in mean-reversion and a slightly uneasy feeling towards any developing idea that there
is sufficient eager bid present.”
From the 2023-08-21 weekly chat:
                                                  ---
“The goal for the next few weeks will be to monitor the hedging environments for signs of a
diminishing eager ask as well as an increase in eager bid. “
                                                   …
    “… if $SPY and $QQQ should begin to respond bullishly (or at all, really) to the purchasing
support, then it suggests that the price-insensitive bid (from the purchasing support) is meeting
 either a decreasingly-eager ask or there is a supportive eager bid budding with the purchasing
                                        support’s support.”
                                                  ----

This slowly-growing eager bid and/or diminishing ask (it can be difficult to discern between the
two without some additional tools1) appears to be demonstrated in this week’s Hedging
Heatmaps: $SPY and $QQQ responded robustly to the purchasing support, producing substantial
gains – the exact sign that we were looking for to determine if the eager ask was diminishing!
Now – one may well be concerned, however, about the resistance the selling pressure offered in
the latter half of the week. In fact, one may even say “Well, Justin, shouldn’t it be, then, that if the
bid is eager, and accompanied by a price-insensitive bid, that it should be able to chew through
minor selling pressure? Hmmm ? HMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM ? ”
That is to say – should there be concern that, although this robust price appreciation driven by
relative increase in eager bid that was assisted by purchasing support why then should the
introduction of even minor selling pressure be enough to stall price-action? The answer to that is
– maybe.
Although mean reversion is not a really “official” entity in the market – it does show itself rather
regularly. There are several suggested mechanisms behind its appearance, but regardless of their
etiologies, it is a reasonable assumption that an index moving beyond its 1-week EPR by 49%
(with Tuesday 2023-08-29 surpassing its 1-day EPR by 72%) should experience some drawdown.
This drawdown would be considered “mean reversion”.
But – neither $SPY nor $QQQ did! And in spite of the addition of selling pressure.




1
    Incoming shortly!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            09/05/2023
This can be quickly visualized with $SPY’s EPR graph:
So, despite the high probability of
mean      reversion2,    and    the
introduction of selling pressure, it
would seem that the newfound
eager bid along with the price-
insensitive bid did reasonably
absorb a potentially additional
drawdown-draft.
This sets the stage before us
already with reasonable evidence
that aggressive bid dominated the market, which, when supported by the price-insensitive bid,
worked to absorb any of the remaining eager ask and still kept the market flat.

[Note: If one wants to really cook their noodle – they might well ask themselves: “but where is the
organic ask ?”. Exercise left to the reader.]
From this stage, our goal for this week is clear: we need only to pick one of the four options below:
    -   should we expect continued dominant bid, and thus, bullish performance, or
    -   should we expect some slight mean reversion throughout the but overall maintain a bullish
        medium-to-long-term outlook, or
    -   were we mistaken in our criteria such that this is a sign of instability and there is still an
        imminent risk of downside, or
    -   do we live in a simulation?
Difficult questions, but we will investigate each one thoroughly and determine the most prudent
answer.
Clt+Alt+F4
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see that we run into our first curious data prints:




I like neither of these.


2
 Although the exact mechanism of mean reversion isn’t terribly well understood, anecdotally, I have noticed that
mean reversion will typically occur after a greater-than-expected move (more than EPR) and will work to move the
price back to the opposing EPR band. Food for thought!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                    09/05/2023
Last week, the preferred actions for VoEx in the week a head were to either:

                                                ---
 “… [to] move back into stability (to suggest a more medium-long-term bullish outlook) or eject
   itself back into the Inhibition Zone (to place us back in BUPO). … [or ] … [hang] around the
                                 Propagation Line (see 03/2023).“
                                                ---
And so, one may think that upon seeing VoEx eject itself back into the Inhibition Zone, happiness
and jubilee would reign. The reality, however, is that now that I’ve seen VoEx ejecting itself back
into the Inhibition Zone I don’t like it.
Why don’t I like it? Well for that, let’s take a peek at ExVoEx for $SPY and $QQQ:




Within the span of a month, VoEx-trend has crashed into the Propagation Zone and subsequently
rejoined into the Inhibition Zone.
This is unstable behavior, and represents continued mounting instability.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        09/05/2023
                                                  ---

                                              Quick Aside
You know how I’m always blabbering on about VoEx? I’m sure you do – its why you stopped
inviting me to dinner parties.
Regardless, one of the things I might have burned into your consciousness like a song you can’t
get out of your head is the idea that “an unstable VoEx is an unstable stock”; typically followed
shortly thereafter with “an instability typically resolves on the downside ”.
Well – how true is this? Let’s take a look!
Let’s take the top 50 stocks by volume and look at their how erratic their VoEx values are, and
then map those values to future rolling-average changes in price over 4 time-frames: 10-, 20-, 40-
, and 60-trading days.

If the idea that an unstable VoEx (the more erratic it is; as measured by the variance of its daily
percent change), is an unstable stock, and unstable stocks typically resolve on the downside, then
we should see that as VoEx’s “erratic-ness” increases, the overall change in future price should
be negative.




That’s exactly what we see! As things get more erratic (moving from the left-to-right), we see the
average change in price (the bar height) becomes negative. Except for the strange data prints at
VoEx Variance ~10 for the 10-, and 20-day (we’ll look into that later).

Additionally, if we look at the data in a slightly different way, we see that the more erratic VoEx
becomes (that’s to say, its variance increases), the returns become almost exclusively negative.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        09/05/2023
        Here is the same data for the 60-day view:




        That’s pretty nifty! It champions the idea that an unstable VoEx is an unstable stock: and instability
        typically resolves to the downside with a cool n = 50,007 observations from 2018 to present.
        Let’s look at some of the high-VoEx-Variance stocks (the highest values so far are 4, so let’s look
        at them):

Stock                                                           VoEx Variance [individual] Value


$HZNP                                                                                         4

$XLI                                                                                          4

$OXY                                                                                          4

$SCHW                                                                                         4



        So, it might be worthwhile keeping an eye on these stocks for over the next month or so as the
        data suggest they are in high risk for downside on the medium-term time-frames.
        Before moving on, perhaps we should check to see where the current value is for $SPY and $QQQ?
        A startling: 1.004!
        These values, admittedly small and bullish, have two caveats associated with them:

        Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                             09/05/2023
The first is that recent growth in these values has sky-rocketed. Let’s look at how $SPY’s VoEx
Variance (the other one3) has progressed over the past year or so:




                                                                          From here, we can see that the
                                                                          recent surge started around 2023-
                                                                          04-24 (which matches are prior
                                                                          discussions wherein we talked about
                                                                          the change in VoEx’s behavior
                                                                          around 05/2023).
                                                                          Since then, the value has essentially
                                                                          doubled.




“But”, you may cry, “despite this growth, the values are still far below 5! Or even 4! Or 3 for that
matter!”
All true statements. Here is caveat number 2: the behavior of these data seem to differ between
ETFs and individual equities! Let’s extract out the data for $SPY and $QQQ from the data, the
same behavior is noted but slightly shifted to the left:




Thus is the second caveat: ETFs and individual equities tend to be different. Although in hindsight,
perhaps not too surprising, as one would expect the foundations of an ETF, which shares its risk
among its basket stocks, to be inherently more stable than individual equities (and thus, it would

3
    I didn’t anticipate another VoEx Variance-dependent metric – I’ll get the names sorted out here shortly.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                          09/05/2023
take less erratic behavior to signal instability) which lowers the values and shifts things to the left
in comparison to the individual equity data.
Nonetheless, these data are:
   1) Curious
   2) Cautionary

They suggest that not only are my hand-wavy rants about VoEx becoming more erratic
substantiated but it also suggests that this increasing erratic performance is pushing us close to
a rather distinct turning out in out outlooks: a few nudges to the right (say, if VoEx continues to
become more erratic), and we will be squarely within “Expected returns for $SPY and $QQQ are
negative over the next 20-, 40-, and 60-trading day!”.
That is quite the poignant statement, and one that causes pause with regard to the prior-
established medium term-outlooks.
But until more research is done on this, suppose we keep this in our back pockets for now.

                                                  ---
Moving from the angst of VoEx, let’s turn towards the Heding environments to see if they offer
any solace:
Well – nope.

Both Hedging Heatmaps have
regressed to the less-desirable states
that we have been experiencing until
just a few weeks ago.
With selling pressure in the local
vicinity and near-absent purchasing
support being provided to the market
in the event of an spot-down, IV-up ($-
/IV+), this effectively removes any
hopes of a continued price-insensitive
bid.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            09/05/2023
                                                  Additionally, both Influence Distributions are
                                                  showing an increased probability of downside
                                                  for the week a head as both have their peaks
                                                  squarely within red.
                                                  Not the most confidence-inspiring orientations!
                                                  Thus far, the data are in conflict with our over-
                                                  arching idea that there was a growing “bullish”
                                                  force in the market. The ideal situation, as
                                                  discussed, was that VoEx would migrate slowly
                                                  into stability and thus provide the seal-of-
                                                  approval that our dip had dippéd, and bullish
                                                  performance would ultimately resume.
The situation we face currently, however, is that VoEx jettisoned itself into the Inhibition Zone,
technically placing the market within BUPO – an unstable bullish outlook – but we see that there
may have been too much zeal in its doing so: VoEx’s erratic-ness is higher than normal; the
hedging environments offer little-to-no purchasing support with local selling pressure present;
and the market moved ~51% more than it was “supposed” to this week, placing it in reasonable
threat for mean reversion.
Not the most reassuring combination of data for a continued BUPO outlook!

Nonetheless, in times of uncertainty, it has been a tradition throughout humanity to turn to a
perceived higher-power, and I find no reason to buck that trend now. So, with that in mind, let’s
take a peek at what our put-selling financial overlords are up to:




Well – that’s not too inspiring either.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        09/05/2023
Looking more distinctly at the data, from the Directionalized Options Table, we can certainly see
the decrease in OTM DLPs:




Triple-digit OTM Puts being dwindled all-the-way down to single digit– it would appear that our
put-selling friends may be anticipating less favorable environments in the near-term for put
selling, and have changed their tune quickly.
Moving away from the higher-ups
towards a more grounded data,
we can see that the MWGS-data is
also mixed somewhat:
Although the MWGS-growth trend
(black line, top graph), and the
overall growth rate (gold line, top
graph), are negative, one can’t
help but peer down to GTM and
notice a rather striking moving
towards positive territory.
If we were to jump a head of
ourselves a little bit and verify the
GTM data with our nascent
revised GTM, we see that it would
appear our, we’ll call it, traditional
version, is appearing to track
towards our revised version (next
page).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      09/05/2023
This GTM graph demonstrates the type and relative amount of gamma entering into the market.
When GTM is negative, it demonstrates a persistent and overall “flow” of short-gamma into the
market. This is correlated with the development of gamma squeezes.




Conversely, when GTM is positive, it is indicative that the net flow of gamma into the market is
dealer-long – a finding that is correlated with the destruction of gamma squeezes.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     09/05/2023
The view offered here is similar to our traditional GTM metric but slightly more opinionated: the
current gamma flows are net-short, suggestive the expectation for continued growth in gamma
squeezes.

We can also see that since the GTM-EMA became negative (at or around 2023-02-01), gamma
squeezes have grown 30%! The same expectation for continued gamma squeezes persists.
Moving from gamma squeezes back to VoEx Variance (the other one), we see signs that suggest
a continued watchful eye is prudent:




Potentially, first is evidence of 𝑉𝑉 2 Collapse – in the top panel, we see that for the past several
months, 𝑉𝑉 2 has been decisively leveling off. Although this isn’t a collapse, it certainly doesn’t
appear to be un-collapsing.

In conjunction with the continued clustering of VoExes within the Inhibition Zone, this suggests
that the VoExes within the Inhibition Zone are grouping up – a sign we have often associated with
the market-wide downturns. From 2023-08-07’s Weely Chat:
                                                ---
 “And so, the idea was simple: VoExes would coalesce into one another prior to a joint-journey
into the Propagation Zone (and thus, indicating market-wide risk for significant downside) – so
                 all we would have to do is keep an eye out on VoEx Variance!
                                                ---

This collapsing manifests as a decrease in 𝑉𝑉 2 (when the black lines above are pointed
downwards) – and although this hasn’t happened yet, we can see that VoExes within the


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         09/05/2023
Inhibition Zone are becoming less-and-less spread out, as their variance diminishes; a potential
first step towards a collapse.
The second finding, albeit barely one, is that there is more data within the Propagation Zone! That
makes three data. Nothing to write home about yet4, but it does add to the ever-growing idea that
                                    Perhaps I have we have been fooled!
Could it be that the contagion isn’t contained? Things don’t look good with these views:
      1) VoEx is increasingly erratic:
              a. The ideal was that VoEx would calm down and re-enter stability. This was a crucial
                  element of prolonging a bullish outlook,
               b. A caveat was that should VoEx move quickly into the Inhibition Zone, a BUPO-
                  stance could be adopted,
               c. However, recent VoEx behavior was a tad too eager – when prompted an
                  investigation into if VoEx has been increasingly erratic, and these data (as seen by
                  VoEx Variance [the other one]) suggest this appears to be the case: VoEx has been
                  progressively becoming more erratic.
      2) The hedging environments are not supportive with the market only introducing more
         selling pressure in the event of a spot-down, IV-up week,
      3) Our put-selling friends seem to be slowing down operations,
      4) MWGS-data is relatively supportive of a bullish market, however GTM-original and GTM-
         revised both point to changing conditions,
      5) 𝑉𝑉 2 data isn’t all that supportive that the contagion, which was previously declared isolated,
         is all that isolated. 𝑉𝑉 2 seems to be collapsing somewhat with a reduced angle-of-
         movement within the Inhibition Zone, and a few more dots of data within the Propagation
         Zone.
This is a messy field. Nonetheless, there are a few rules-of-thumbs we can follow to help guide
us through:
      -    Buy low
      -    Sell high
I think for the week a head, since it is a short week, I will simply kick my feet back and observe
while downsizing my long-positions.
Should things ramp up towards the downside, I will most likely start moving into short-term short
positions with the expectation that conditions don’t seem robust enough to starve off a
reasonable movement to the downside. It might be worth keeping an eye on LDPM-89 for $SPY
on the daily, which is currently sitting at $434.35 – a smooth 3.73% down from the current close.
That’s all I have for you guys!
Oh – never mind real quick: the next patch for the Dashboard is slightly delayed. I will keep you
updated on the next anticipated release date.


4
    Although apparently good-enough to write to you about.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                             09/05/2023
Happy trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat   09/05/2023
