                                  Weekly Chat 2025-05-26


                                        Main Points



    -   VoEx resides within stability while VoEx-daily is hugging the boundary line.
    -   The hedging heatmaps showcase diffuse selling pressure located in all regions spot-up
        with purchasing support located in all regions spot-down for both $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   DLP data show case continued apathy.
    -   MWGS data showcase calm waters but GTM is printing deeply negative prints.
    -   LDPM/S analysis showcase local resistance anticipated spot-up on $ES but overall
        conditions appear relatively calm and bullish.
    -

                                         SUMMARY



          The market appears to have been bent into a bullish disposition but there
          are some data which appear to be persistently resistant to a fully bullish
          outlook.

          These data are mainly the gamma-hedging heatmaps which showcase
          persistent selling pressure, a deeply negative GTM and local resistance
          noted via LDPM/S on the shorter-time frames for $ES.

          Taken together, the current bearish tides seem to be receding but perhaps
          a slight caution as to how tsunamis work.

          Bullish plans with prudency keeping a side eye on the MWGS data, VoEx-
          daily’s flirting with stability, and the resistances noted with LDPM/S
          analysis.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat         for the week of              2025-06-09 to 2025-06-13
                                             DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with sights set high but resigned to take baby steps as the downside risk
was significant. To that end, $SPY moved 1.65% to the upside while $QQQ moved 2.08% to the
upside. These moves




We can see the market seems to have benefitted quite nicely from the steady supply for
purchasing support, which worked to placed both $SPY and $QQQ atop the purchasing-support
shelf by week’s end.
The moves this week were right below the upper-end of the Expected-Price Range (EPR) so we’ll
forego the EPR table for this week as the components to summon the spectre of mean reversion
are not present.
Thus, this week, let’s take a peek at the data to see if up is still the game plan while assessing
conditions for more risk assessment.
Spot Up, Risk Down
Starting as usual with VoEx:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-06-09 to 2025-06-13
Here we see VoEx residing staunchly within Stability along with VoEx-daily. This infers a bullish
future ahead!
Let’s see how the hedging heatmaps might respond to this development:




What a switch! Sort of – it seems all this week has done is scoot things up some. The
consequence is that the local environment that both $SPY (left) and $QQQ (right) have become
inundated in selling pressure as it has been lifted above the purchasing support, as seen from the
index’s progress outlined last week above.
The consequence is that the week is poised to immediately introduce selling pressure, the
consequence of which is an anticipated introduction of purchasing support! Quite the stasis for
the market to be in!
To break this tie du force let’s check the option dealer behavior to see if they are incorporating
any new long puts:




Nope!
This activity is very – strange – to say the least. With an abundance of paranoia, I went back
through the whole process and things are indeed this still under the surface! That’s to say, there
are no overt signs elsewhere that the data from which these graphs are derived are corrupted or
broken somehow, and there doesn’t seem to be any thing wrong with the process (at first I was
concerned that something was shifted out of sequence somehow).



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-06-09 to 2025-06-13
I went ahead and cooked up a graph




No real big changes over the past month or so! So indeed – it appears that the dealers be dealing
something else besides long puts.
This suggests continued lack of confidence in the option dealers to take on more risk via long
puts. The assumption is that, in some form or another, this indicates a heightened risk of some
sort of combination of [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + ] future, which then suggests an increased risk of such a future in
said future.
Next up, let’s take a peek at the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data to see if we can discern
anything. First up, we’ll take a peek at the traditional, and then modified (and one day here soon
unify the two):




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2025-06-09 to 2025-06-13
                                                    On the top, we can see a slowly
                                                    rising but persistently negative
                                                    growth curve (light blue line, top
                                                    graph). Over the past month,
                                                    gamma        squeezes        have
                                                    decreased ~8%.
                                                    On the bottom panel we see
                                                    GTM is remaining negative,
                                                    continuously foretelling of a
                                                    short-gamma entrance into the
                                                    market.




The modified MWGS data
show a near-zero PGC
(predictive growth curve;
purple line) suggesting, still,
that the future is one that is
less filled with gamma
squeezes than present but
one that is less less filled
than what was less filled
with the week prior.
Taken together these data
are similar in effect to the
original data: the gamma
environment is currently calm




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat    for the week of       2025-06-09 to 2025-06-13
but GTM suggests this will be short lived.

So, it seems the time-old (as in: the last month or so) threads are still visible as we weave our
futures: presently things look bullish and calm but GTM suggests disturbance may be making its
way towards us. Let’s check with the ES/VX data to see if conditions have changed:




Up to, we have the continued bull-trap underway as noted in the lower-order timeframes (90-
minute in the top-left and the 144-minute in the top right). On the 90-minute we see ES testing the
LDPM-L6 ceiling at $6,022.46 with bullish liquidity, last time (around the 5th) this test failed which
doesn’t infer anything about the future except for some hand-wavy bias.
On the 144-minute l’oppression d’ask finds itself located at LDPM-L6 $6,078.69 (heh) but, unlike
its lower-interval counter-part, this is being met with already a showing of the ask poking towards
the downside (via LDPS’ indication of an Eager Ask and liquidity Flowing to the Bid).
Moving up we see the 987-minute chart with the wiggly-lines drawn thereupon –you’ll notice price
has moved into a differently colored region, which represents the transition from `Bulltrap` to
`Mixed – Bullish Leaning` but you’ll remember that this was based on the boundary line indicating
what was then the anticipated LDPM-L6 and LDPM-L5 cross. Since the wiggles have wiggled their
way out of this obligation, but let’s keep an eye on things for now, just to see how it does.
For now, we see bearish liquidity (it seems LDPS is detecting an eager ask reaching up to the ask
which always increases the risk of a liquidity vacuum forming) as price rises above the LDPM-L7



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2025-06-09 to 2025-06-13
resistance. This gives overall bearish expectations – not officially a bulltrap anymore but just
bearish LDPS with a bearish LDPM stack.
On the 1-week view, we see a similar slightly concerning sight as from above: LDPS is detecting
and eager bid rising up to the ask, elevating the risk of a liquidity vacuum. This hightens the
upcoming tests noted previously as well as within the 1-Week view of LDPM-L5 ceiling located
~4% north of current spot.

Taken together, this is a tenuously bullish presentation of the data but particular concern and
observation should be noted as the futures test the aforementioned resistances.
Moving onwards, we find VX:




Here we see a different story as compared to previous peeks. Whereas before the views on the
lower levels were that of bull traps, currently the views have changed with a bullish outlook on the
90-minute (it looks to be testing the LDPM-L6 support but with bullish liquidity).
The 144-minute is bearish liquidity-wise and a mixed LDPM stack. One is almost brought to the
idea that a breakout above LDPM-L5 with bullish liquidity could see movement to $23.44 quite
rapidly (+20%!).
On the 987-minute, we arrive to the still-present bear traps which is testing liquidity levels at $17
currently. It’s worth noting that LDPM is still quite obstinate in its positioning and does not appear
too interested in inverting the stack so that the bear trap can start dissolving into just bearishness.

The 1-Week view finds conditions still in a bulltrap with evidence that things are going to test
LDPM-L7. Typically this would anticipate (should the test occur) rapid return to below LDPM-L5



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2025-06-09 to 2025-06-13
– normally you would expect LDPS to have turned bearish at this point so it seems something
under the surface is keeping the idea of a blltrap alive.
Let us monitor it in the mean time!
Now, let’s check out a new tool!
Well, its not really a new tool but rather one that once was and that I thought wasn’t all that helpful
but now that we have really started focusing on liquidity it seems like a good opportunity to bring
back the Liquidity Levels!
[Note: this is essentially the TV version of LDPM-LL from the dashboard].

Let’s take a peek at some daily charts with LL enabled and then I’ll outline the timeline for getting
everyone access to them (I’ll add it as a new indicator to TV or incorporate it into LDPS/LDPM
depending on how things would work best).
Here is $TSLA on the daily, with LL on the bottom. I’ve added the verticle bars to indicate when
the `Amount` (which is representative of the “amount” of liquidity in the tank; positive is bullish
liquidity and negative is bearish) switches from positive to negative. The other colored area is
`Flow`, which is, as it sounds, representative of the amount and type of flow: the bigger the value
the more flow and if it is positive, it is bullish and if it is negative, it is bearish.
Here ya go!




Pretty nifty, huh!
Let’s check on $TLT:



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2025-06-09 to 2025-06-13
Again, I put the vertical lines for your convenience in just checking out the general behavior and
~vibe~ of how the algorithm works.
Here’s ES on the daily with the flow and amounts highlighted:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-06-09 to 2025-06-13
An VX!




I’ll leave these here for now for you to investigate over the next week and thereupon (next week,
that is) I’ll share the plans for getting this integrated into the TV scripts!



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of             2025-06-09 to 2025-06-13
So – overall, it appears the market is relatively bullish! There are some signs of unease: GTM is
printing massively negative prints; VoEx-daily is hovering at the boundary of stability; local
resistances noted in the skies above $ES along with local and immediate selling pressure found
within the hedging heatmaps and so there is considerable headwinds to contest this bullish
outlooks.
Should the headwinds start to take affect and work to inhibit the market either partially or fully
(by way of a bearish week) then the name of the game will be to monitor the downside, as we
usually do, for both scope and duration.
Until then, bullish thoughts with prudent actions seems reasonable!
Happy Trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-06-09 to 2025-06-13
