                                   Weekly Chat 2025-03-10


                                         Main Points



    -   VoEx deepens within the Propagation Zone while VoEx-daily stalls therein for both $SPY
        and $QQQ.
    -   Hedging environments showcase a vanna-orientation with $SPY experiencing local
        selling pressure, as opposed to $QQQ’s purchasing support.
    -   Put-selling has ceased on $SPY and remains steady on $QQQ.
    -   LDPM/S configurations demonstrate bearish outlooks with a significant downside
        target.
    -   The Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data (MWGS) showcase acceleration of GS growth
        and negative GTM values.
    -   VoEx Variance Distribution graphs showcase a progression in the market towards the
        Propagation Zone.




                                          SUMMARY



           VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ has deepened into the Propagation Zone while
           VOEx-daily has stalled; $SPY’s pointing downwards, $QQQ’s (curiously)
           pointing upwards. These VoEx-daily stalls are accompanied with an
           elevated risk of mean reversion.

           This risk is elevated furthermore via $QQQ’s hedging heatmap, which
           showcases local purchasing support; however, $SPY’s vanna-orientation
           is set to provide immediate selling pressure.

           Put-selling on $SPY has returned to near-zero while $QQQ’s has
           maintained a steady flow, despite recent [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + ].

           These bearish data accompany LDPM and LDPS, which showcase bearish
           liquidity and the near-by organic bid located at about 6% down.

           MWGS data showcases the GS-growth rate increasing significantly, and
           along with the recent increase in gamma squeezes and the negative GTM
           values, this suggests continued GS growth is likely.

           Overall, these data are exceptional and suggest downside is likely.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     03/10/2025
                                                          DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with continued bearish ideations, and this week was kind enough to
facilitate our goals. To this end, $SPY moved -3.07% while $QQQ moved -3.22%. As impressive as
these numbers are, they do not represent the breadth of this week’s moves. For that, we can take
a peek at Thursday’s prices, which provide us -3.61% for $SPY and -3.92% for $QQQ – some
substantial moves! Pulling out the handy-dandy-EPR-normalization, this gives us:

    Symbol                  Anticipated Move Realized Move                  Ratio (Real / Ant.) %-magnitude Dif.
                            (±%) (T+4 | T+5) (%) (T+4 | T+5)                (T+4 | T+5)         (T+4 | T+5)

    $SPY                       1.58 | 1.76             3.61 | 3.07             2.28 | 1.76      78.00 | 54.00

    $QQQ                       2.18 | 2.44             3.92 | 3.22             1.80 | 1.32      57.05 | 27.56



In short, the market moved ~2x as much as the market was expecting (from last Friday) by
Thursday, and then on Friday, with help of some reversion, the market was brought back towards
the market’s prior expectations with some bullish performance.
Some hefty numbers! At first glance, it demonstrates quite the extensive under-appreciation for
the upcoming risk with respect to $SPY1! It seems this week’s moves on $SPY were well beyond
expectation with a week-end ratio of 1.76 (larger than $QQQ at 1.32!).
Such moves put the risk of ~mean reversion~ back on the table for the week ahead, and so, we
should consider that going forward – but before we get too embroiled with going forward, let’s
go backwards to ensure our pasts are well secured with a review of the hedging heatmaps:




Last week, we commented on how the orientations were severe and, as such, severe price
movement could be expected, and indeed with the heatmaps above we can see this is the case.



1
    IV is a terrible indicator of future price ranges but its what the market insists we use!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                       03/10/2025
Curiously, it seems the purchasing support on $QQQ (as opposed to its absence on $SPY)
coїncided with $SPY’s larger-than-$QQQ’s weekly move.
Starting with VoEx




We see VoEx has continued its descent into the Propagation Zone for both $SPY and $QQQ while
VoEx-daily has stalled slightly in place (each stall seems to have its own lean; $SPY’s is leaning
down while $QQQ’s up). The outlook from this is clear: protracted downside, likely punctuated
with bull-traps; developments that we can monitor via VoEx-daily.
With the spectre of ~mean reversion~ suspected to be nearby, VoEx should be checked after any
green moves in the early part of the week to see if a VoEx-Spike2 complex starts forming,
indicative of, well, a bubbling bull-trap.
Thus, with downside in mind, despite the bothersome presence of phantasmus reversus meanius,
let’s take a peek at the hedging heatmaps:




On the left we see $SPY has local and immediate selling pressure, much like the last few weeks.
$QQQ finds itself in a nook of purchasing support, semicircumventially flanked by selling



2
  An early sign of a VoEx Spike complex forming is when VoEx’s responses to small price appreciations seems
“exaggerated”. Such as 2023-10-01 on $SPY – note that just before the bull trap formed just after 2023-10-01, small
moves of the price sent VoEx-daily from the P.Z. to Stability versus the price movements versus the price:VoEx
relationship in, say, 2024-01 where the price consistently rose and VoEx just vibrated around the neutral zone.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                      03/10/2025
pressure. In terms of the shared paths towards gamma neutrality, the two indexes seem to share
a general heading for gamma neutrality: either [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] or [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +]!
In recent history, the relative “strength” of these indexes has seen them migrate towards the
down-and-to-the-right more than up-and-to-the-left, but one cannot deny the relative “ramp” of
purchasing support available to both $QQQ and $SPY, should the market find the footing to act
on it.

So, thus far we’ve seen that conditions remain on quite rocky grounds (as per VoEx and the
hedging heatmaps) but no real definitive answer yet as to how robust the spectre of you-know-
what is, who may be poised to inhibit further downside. Although VoEx-daily looks “poised” to
spring upwards (and such an assumption would lend itself towards supporting a bull trap as a
early sign of a VoEx Spike complex), it simply hasn’t (and from many learned lessons, I shall
refrain from anticipating in such anticipatory endeavors) and the hedging heatmaps, while
supportive in a modest sense for $QQQ, show anti-support for $SPY, bringing about ambiguity in
the contemplation of the two jointly.

Thus, let’s take a peek at our put-selling friends and see if they have any insights; are they
preparing for a bull-run?




Mm no not quite – at least not on $SPY definitively (as the put-selling has decreased drastically).
$QQQ’s activity remains elevated but not increasing; this is of no effect to us, however, as we are
interested in knowing if things have changed for the bullish, not if they are in any sense, and as
such, this gives us our first conjoined answer! No.
It would appear as though neither party actively took a role in selling puts with bullish ideations
in hand for the week ahead, despite the robust [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + ].
Does this slay our spectating spectre? Not quite – but it certainly doesn’t give him much hope,
I’m told.
Let’s take a quick look at a few LDPMs throughout the land to see if there are any bull-traps
underway and, if so, if they might have identifiable ceilings:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        03/10/2025
For ES futures, on the top graph (the daily) we can see ES with bearish liquidity is approaching
LDPM-987! (labeled as LDPM-1, pink line). This is not suggestive of a bounce (yet) as there seems
to still be a reasonable amount of room between price and the organic bid (i.e.: has the organic
bid been “tapped” yet? LDPM suggests there’s still some room to go). Additionally, there is
minimal evidence of an “scoops” forming or being underway from the eager parties; rather the
eager parties seem to be persisting as eager asks, even as the price declines! You can note this
via the lower-order LDPMs keeping just above the candles as the price declines.
On the bottom we see ES on the weekly also showcasing minimal risk for reversion, however, it is
worth noting that oftentimes, these “breakthrough” candles tend to “cling” (as I call it) to the LDPM
they fell through for awhile (note the same style of breakthrough and cling to LDPM-7 on the
Weekly chat at the start of 2022). In envision these potentials, one sees a future in which a
lethargic bounce occurs, as price clings to an ascending LDPM, but, despite realism, it is difficult
to deny the stronger pull of both the imagination and liquidity towards the downside at LDPM-6
for the weekly view – which, as it turns out, is the price point as LDPM-987 on the daily! About
$5.4k (about -6.00% down).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          03/10/2025
Zooming        into       lower
timeframes for ES (605), we
can see a curious sight (right):
no scoop!
Whereas one would expect
some form of scooping to be
underway with the lower-
order LDPMs, this does not
seem to be present! In fact,
we see the eager LDPMs are
maintain their role as eager
asks!
The presence of a scoop
pattern would give credence
to the idea that a bounce may be in the works (the “scoop” pattern representing the presence of
an eager bid moving in); without the presence of the scoop, there’s little to support a near-term
bounce.
So, overall, it would appear that the spectre of mean-reversion, should it be present, is in a rather
lethargic state; one which will have to fight through several layers of LDPM in order to revert back
towards the hitherto supportive LDPMs.
Are there any other head-winds in the market that might help usher things along? Let’s check the
MWGS data to see if the foundations are tilted towards bullish horizons.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          03/10/2025
                                                                        No, not quite!
                                                                        Growth is well-elevated (top graph,
                                                                        blue line) with the trajectory being
                                                                        well established upwards. This
                                                                        growth curve erects on the heels of
                                                                        only a modest increase in gamma
                                                                        squeezes of 27% month-over-month,
                                                                        and nearly no change for the more
                                                                        near-term averages.3
                                                                        As logic dictates, the outlook is
                                                                        continued gamma-squeeze growth,
                                                                        which brings with it expectations of
                                                                        continued market downside!

                                                                        Let’s briefly check GTM to make sure
                                                                        nothing wonky is making its way
                                                                        through the pipes, headed towards
                                                                        the market with a splash:




Nope! Well – at least no long-gamma splashes seem to be headed our way but rather it looks as
though GTM is remaining in its negative state,
giving us yet more suggestive nods towards
market downturn.
Thus, the lay of the gamma-land suggests the
ground may be far too muddied and slippery
to support the shaky legs of recovering
market.

Taken together, the view seems dismal for
any prospects of a bullish return-to-service
from the market, and reasonably dismal for
any prospects of even just a near-term
bounce. And so, the outlook appears
relatively straightforward: downside!
Ordinarily we would likely leave off there, but I felt like it was time to look at the ol’ VoEx Variance
distributions again. The VoEx Variance data is not something that comes out often; namely
because it takes forever and a day to calculate even when multithreaded!4 Thankfully, the wait is



3
    You’ll remember that ~2025-01-ish the growth curve was modified slightly to have a touch of predictiveness!
4
    You get the subtle impression that that’s your fault.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                        03/10/2025
well worth it, as it gives a very wide and deep view of all of the equities in the market (that VoEx
can be calculated on).
There are several ways to view these data but the most straight-forward way is via the distribution
plots. Essentially, each line represents the amount of something per x-axis. The higher the line,
the more of that something there is. In our case, the something is the number of VoEx values –
and so the curves show us (essentially) the population of each VoEx value, as shown on the x-
axis. Before we look at the real data, let’s just take a peek at an example to explain how these
data are cooked and what to look for.




Above is the general scheme on how the following
graphs are produced.
From this, we can infer the two main “leans” that
we might find, showcased on the right: either the
data are leaning towards the right (a bullish lean
(shown on the left), as it shows the majority of the
population living within stability), or a bearish lean
(leaning to the left (but shown on the right)) that
shows the majority of VoExes residing within the
Propagation Zone.

Another characteristic to keep track of with the VoEx Variance distribution graphs is the width of
the distribution; when the curve is spread out, it means VoExs are “distributed” throughout, or in
transit, but if the distribution curves are narrow, then this indicates that the VoExes are “clustered”
in the same spot (and thus, share a common outlook!).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            03/10/2025
Before we continue on towards the inevitable (seeing the current data), let’s take a peek at what
these distributions looked like during some prior market moments by way of a big spread. Below
are the data grouped by year (into the boxes) and the colored by month. Definitely take a moment
to look at things, there’s a lot here!




Next week (with more time available) we can poke apart these data a bit more but for now, let’s
move on to the current data to see what they look like. For 2025, I broke the data up into the
individual days, in 2-month chunks. On the left, the graph shows the data from 2024-12-27 until
2025-01-28, and on the right, the data are from 2024-01-28 to present.
I overlaid three “general curves” onto the graphs to give a sense for the overall movement of the
data:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      03/10/2025
Above we can see that by the end of 2024 and the start of 2025, the data were predominately on
the left (in the Propagation Zone), and some migration towards stability occurred between those
two intervals whereby towards the end of January, we can see the data started leaning into stable
territory. However, on the right panel, we can see this eroded as February approached and passed,
such that, by Mid-February, the data had started to lean towards the right again (just ahead of
time for the downside)5.
From this adventure, we arrive on the current data, indicated by the “Start of March” designator,
which shows the data for the market leaning quite to the left, and with a wide distribution. This
suggests that the majority of the VoExes in the market are spread out but are predominantly found
within the Propagation Zone.
This sounds like a fractured market! For instance, take another peek above at the distribution
graphs for 2021 versus 2023! Whereas they both show the predominance of the data (throughout
the year) being above the Propagation Zone, 2023 showed a much more diffuse sprinkling of
VoExes, suggestive that the market was “fractured” in 2023 then in 2021. We can see this with
the overall performance difference in ES for these time periods; with 2021, the bullish data was
united and so the price action was too (right) in 2023, we can see significantly more turbulence:




5
    You’ll be sure to cross-check these with the price-charts.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      03/10/2025
And so, this brings us to the final thoughts on the VoEx Variance distributions; the data currently
show migration towards the Propagation Zone, along with a widening of VoEx distribution
suggestive of a “fragmented” market of sorts. In combination, the migration towards the
Propagation Line shows evidence for a market-wide bearish future, while the widening out
suggests a market prone to sporadic and spontaneous shifts.

In monitoring these data, the expectation is that the distribution curves should coalesce in the
Propagation Zone as the market capitulates, followed by an eventual re-widening out of the
distributions with migration, this time, towards stability.

Thus, in short, the likelihood of a mean-reversive week is present but has few supporters found
within the data. Historical analogues with LDPM and Price relationships suggest there may be
some “clinging” happening before the price and LDPM finally separate, sending price down into
the void to meet the organic bid, currently located ~6.00% down on ES. Supportive evidence for
this outlook is found within $QQQ’s hedging environment, which shows a col-de-sac of purchasing
support.
Without many hopes of a bullish bounce basking before us, the only other option is a bearish
bounce. To support this, we find VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ existing in the P.Z., $SPY’s hedging
environment eager to supply selling pressure, a cessation of put-selling on $SPY and a lack of
put-indulgence on $QQQ, LDPM and LDPS showing that are wholly bearish and supportive of a
6% decline, extremely excited expressions emerging ex the MWGS data, with the gamma-squeeze
growth accelerating along with GS counts increasing, and finally we have the VoEx Variance
Distributions that showcase a market leaning ever-more to the left and into the Propagation Zone.
Taken together, these paint some extraӧrdinary data and markets ! The view currently suggests
downside is likely, imminent and potentially significant.


Happy Trading!


Justin


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        03/10/2025
