                                   Weekly Chat 10/16/2023


                                        Main Points


   -    VoEx Coiling on $SPY and $QQQ have reverted back towards the Propagation Zone,
   -   Hedging Environments are stabilizing with a partial stable-vanna configuration
       present,
   -   MWGS data suggests minimal short-gamma flows into the market currently,
   -   DLP behavior is discordant between $SPY and $QQQ with $QQQ DLPs ramping down
       and $SPY’s stagnating in the positive territory,
   -   𝑉𝑉 2 is demonstrating both collapse and continued growth of data within the
       Propagation Zone, and
   -   The I-P Ratio has become negative up to the 60-day benchmark;
   -   Overall, a reasonable chunk of bearish prints that are of reasonable magnitude for the
       medium and longer-terms while the shorter-term rests tentatively on shakey-bullish
       grounds.




                                          SUMMARY



           VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ worked toward the end of their VoEx Coiling
           this week, however, there is continued concern that the subsequent
           BUPO typically witnessed afterwards has failed with VoEx falling back
           into the P.Z. for $QQQ and 0.01 points away from it on $SPY.

           This bearish outlook is balanced on the near-term with a tentatively
           stabilizing hedging environment.

           However, on the more medium and longer-terms things don’t look all that
           supportive: VoEx overall continues to be erratic, DLP behavior is
           dropping quickly on $QQQ, 𝑉𝑉 2 data is demonstrating continued migration
           towards a market correction, and the I-P ratio shows transformation of
           the market to a net-Propagation-Zone market on the 60-day timeframe.

           Overall, expecting instability with a bearish lean into a forming market
           correction.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      10/16/2023
                                            DETAILS




Heyo everyone! Last week, we left off with the idea that the market was looking turbulent but
bullish on the short term.
With a Week-over-Week change in $SPY of 0.16% and a change on $QQQ of 0.83%, it certainly
can’t be said the outlook was wrong.
But – we can say it was a bit incomplete. On review of last week’s Weekly Chat, it stands out
that in discussing the hedging environment, I failed to mention that the hedging environments
for $SPY and $QQQ were in a vanna-stable orientation, and thus, failed to review the typical
outcome of vanna-stable Hedging Heatmaps. Thus, to avoid such mistakes in the future, let’s do
so now. From Weekly Chat 2023-08-14:




Ta-da! That is to say, vanna-stable orientations typically resolve with near-zero movements in
price, despite larger intra-week moves.
Sound familiar?
Let’s look at this week’s hedging environments to see if things fared similarly:

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     10/16/2023
Yup! Just about – the early part of the week moved up into selling pressure, only to quickly be
turned around back down into purchasing support. Not too shabby.
Although the week’s price action was rather moot in terms of a net-movement perspective, there
was a good amount of activity within the data. So this week, let’s investigate if we should be on
the look out for continued price appreciation or if the bull-trap that we suspected would be
rather short is, in fact, going to be particularly short.
As usual, first let’s go over some data, and then let’s ramble!
Let’s get started
Starting as usual with VoEx. Last week it was mentioned that VoEx Coiling was present (which
was the rationale behind a green week a head), and indeed, it seems that VoEx Coiling was
present and acted relatively decisively (if not but modestly).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      10/16/2023
$SPY’s VoEx continued spiking into stability (as expected from Coiling) but a cursory glance
suggests this event may be more transient than previous expected.


This outlook may be more clear once we see $QQQ’s VoEx:




Whereas on $SPY, VoEx Coiling rose and stalled at about the Inhibition Line, we see that $QQQ
appears to have finished off its coiling escapades with a VoEx Spike. This spike, as it were, has
brought VoEx into the Propagation Zone for $QQQ – a move that transects all 3 zones (sound




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      10/16/2023
familiar?1; also it should be noted that $SPY’s VoEx stopped just short of the Propagation Zone
at -0.49 [the Propagation Line is defined as -0.50]).
This places concern on the continuance of VoEx Coiling’s bullish expectations as typically you
would like to see VoEx move into the Inhibition Zone to give a nice Bullish-until-proven-otherwise
(BUPO) extension to
the coiling.
A quick example (I
just did a quick
market scan search
around 6mo ago for
erratic VoExes and
found        $LMNR)
shows this: Spikey
down, spikey up 2,
followed by BUPO:


These data prints
(for $PSY and $QQQ,
that is), aren’t quite as encouraging as BUPO doesn’t typically manifest as a move into the P.Z.
(well – not this BUPO; Bearish-until-proven-otherwise [BUPO] does. But this is Bullish-until-
proven-otherwise [BUPO]. No, it’s not confusing. You’re confusing).

In any case, this suggests bearish performance a head – or perhaps it might be better to phrase
it as: this suggests continued bearish performance ahead.
With that in mind, how do the hedging environments have to say about their upcoming
involvement in the week’s price action?




1
  Weekly Chat 2023-09-18 & Weekly Chat 2023-08-07 for recent discussions and examples of tranzonal VoEx
Spikes.
2
  Sorry for the technical jargon.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                 10/16/2023
More agreement between $SPY and $QQQ! $QQQ seems to have a touch more vanna-influence
within its midsts, but for now, at least it is of the supportive type.
Both present with available purchasing support in the event of a $-/IV+ week, while both give
modest selling pressure in the event of a contrary movement.
Not quite as exciting as it could be, but the hedging environments seem to echo last week’s
layout – a potential for a choppy but overall-flat-week.
Deviating our view slightly and glimpsing at what our sneaky-put-selling-friends are up to, we are
met with continued confusion:




Perhaps it is that $SPY’s put-sellers are delayed in their data somehow (and thus, outlook) as
compared to $QQQ, for it seems that $QQQ’s put-selling is falling off a cliff while $SPY’s put-
selling seems to just be approaching the cliff.
Quite the discrepancy! Although we’ve seen $QQQ “front-run” $SPY for VoEx, it is rather unusual
for such a discrepancy to present within the DLPs.
For instance, with regards to VoEx, the first such event to come to mind (or at least, the event
that I can vaguely remember where to look for it in the Weekly Chats!) is from earlier this year.
Weekly Chat 2023-05-15 (right) also commented on the discrepancy between $SPY and $QQQ.
What we know now that we didn’t know then is that $QQQ was leading $SPY (and the market)
by moving swiftly into BUPO. This was lamented on the exact following week; an except from
Weekly Chat 2023-05-22:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       10/16/2023
               “
  And it seemed that the
market delivered on the off-
     chance of bullish
 performance with a $SPY
 move of 1.7% - which just
breeches the 5-day EPR for
 $SPY of 1.66% (from the
Friday prior to last until last
Friday). A casual reminder
 that EPR is, for all intents
   and purposes, mostly
           magic.
               “
This     bullish    VoEx
performance front-ran a
rather substantial bullish
run (22% over the next 3
months on $QQQ!).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat    10/16/2023
This discordant or front-running behavior with regards to put-selling, however, is rarely seen. If
we quickly scan over some historical data for $SPY and $QQQ, we see that they are typically
well in-sync, baring a few put-selling adventures from the $QQQ crowd around mid-2022-12:




All the squiggles squiggle together! (mostly).
Here, we can see that such divergence in agreement is rarely seen between $SPY and $QQQ (we
also see, just how much put-selling has ramped up in recent years!).
What does this all mean? Well – in hand-wavy fashion, I would like to posit the idea that risk-off
performances are typically performed most strongly on the instruments that are inherently more
risk-on . So, that’s to say, perhaps $QQQ’s basket-exposure is such that greater and more
aggressive risk management is required!
Or that the $QQQ team is just simply better timed - which I’m also inclined to believe.
With that in mind, I find $QQQ’s put-closing to be foretelling of the outlook ahead, and I would
expect $SPY’s put-selling-pact to quickly get-the-message.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        10/16/2023
Expanding our view somewhat, the MWGSC data offers a slight reprieve for the bulls in the
crowd:




                                                                    With    a     negative
                                                                    growth-trend,     and
                                                                    negative GTM, it
                                                                    would seem that the
                                                                    MWGSC-data           is
                                                                    poised to give a
                                                                    bullish outlook for
                                                                    the time a head.
                                                                    And so, it would
                                                                    seem that the data
                                                                    are             looking
                                                                    predominately
                                                                    bearish, save some
                                                                    gamma-flows         that
                                                                    suggest           short-
                                                                    gamma has dried up
                                                                    slightly for now.
                                                                    Are there are other
                                                                    interesting data that
                                                                    we can peek at?
                                                                    Well yes - actually -
                                                                    there is!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                10/16/2023
Let’s take a look at our friend, VoEx Variance (𝑉𝑉 2):




Oh my.
Frankly – this level of collapse is a bit unprecedented. With continued expansion of data within
the Propagation Zone, and with clear collapse noted in all three zones, it would seem that things
are at a high-risk for entering into “market correction” territory.
In fact, if we take a peek at the Inhibition-Propagation Ratio, we can see just how much of the
market’s VoExes are residing within the Propagation Zone:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      10/16/2023
The answer to “how many” would seem to be: enough to move the 60-day moving average of
the Inhibition-Propagation back into negative territory (from the vantage point of the Inhibition
Zone, top graph)! Thus, officially ending the most recent golden period.
So, in sum, it would appear that the market is on the doorstep of another leg-down:

   -   VoEx’s coiling stopped short of BUPO and seems to be returning back into the P.Z.,
   -   DLP behavior for $QQQ is quite bearish and $SPY’s is likely to follow suit,
   -   𝑉𝑉 2 is collapsing and more data are printing within the Propagation Zone, and
   -   The I-P Ratio shows the 60-day moving average for the I-P Ratio has once more crossed
       into negative territory.
These are some pretty substantial prints, although there are some supportive prints that should
be noted for the near-term:
   -   Hedging environments are technically stabilizing with purchasing support located in the
       $-/IV+ quadrant,
   -   MWGS-data is technically bullish with negative GTM prints and a declining growth rate.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        10/16/2023
Thus, I think volatile times are certainly ahead; even if a large leg-down doesn’t manifest
overnight, I don’t think this level of instability (which has, by and large, been growing for 5
months now; albeit at a glacial pace) can be resolved in one week, even if the purchasing
support present starves off immediate downside.
Should VoEx find itself shooting back into IZ, I will anticipate a round of BUPO but, as mentioned
previously, I won’t be too rattled at the short positions currently open – in fact, I might find it a
pleasant discount given the view obtained from these data.
Happy trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          10/16/2023
Rambling Section
If you’re anything like the various voices in my head, you’ve probably been saying things like
“Wow Justin, lots of things under development but not a lot of things developed ” or “Okay, but
do you need a third milkshake?” or even things like “Surly you can’t come up with another
ridiculous acronym”.
The answers, of course, to all of those questions are: “Correct, yes, and yes”.
Naturally the latter two questions are self-explanatorily-resonant to any self-respecting person,
but what about the first question? Has there been any real development lately?

Yes!
Well - kind of.
Let me fill you in: basically, I’ve had the big-sad for a while and I didn’t have much brain-space to
be creative in the nerd-space. But lately, this seems to be shifting; much to the relief of myself
and, I’m sure, dear reader, to you.
To the latter point, I’d like to briefly keep you abreast3 as to what is going on and what is on my
radar for you.
First up is LDPS – or Liquidity-Dependent Price Stability. You’ve seen me talk about it, you may
even have seen a tweet or two but essentially it is a way to color your bar charts on TradingView
with various colors indicating the type of liquidity and whether or not it is improving or getting
worse.

It looks something like this:
The orange is bearish and
green is bullish, and the text
shows us that in text-form
along with if the liquidity is
“improving” or “worsening”.
LDPS has been a bit of an
adventure to find – it started
out with something called
LDPM-LL            (Liquidity-
Dependent Price Movement
– Liquidity Levels) but this
was a tad complicado so I
spent a reasonable amount
of time widdling it down
some to get a more
straightforward metric.


3
    This is not the time to laugh.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          10/16/2023
The preliminary analysis and back-tests are pretty stellar for LDPS with TradingView suggesting
~800 -1,000% returns over 3 years depending on your risk tolerance. The crux is, however, that
these numbers are too good, and so I am spending some time manually constructing a back-
test and various analysis methods on daily, hourly, 30min and 15min timeframes to ensure
nothing weird is going on.
Since the typical sequence of events for releasing a metric to you guys is:

   1) Analysis
   2) Back-test (if applicable)
   3) Primer construction
   4) Video construction
   5) Release
This places us on step 1.5ish. As long as things go smoothly, step 5 should be somewhere next
month.
The good news is, however, that LDPS-Beta is available for use for Premium Members. If you
would like, please don’t hesitate to reach out and I can get you added.
Secondly, I have heard your feedbacks regarding the Dashboard and I am in the middle of
implementing things, with the following priority:
   1) Better mobile friendliness
       Things such as buttons (quick aside to the newer members: you may be confused as to
       why some parts of the dashboard have buttons and some don’t. Well, you see, it took me
       awhile to figure out how buttons work so. The parts the don’t have buttons are the older
       parts) will be implemented to make mobile browsing easier.
       This requires a modest amount of backend updating but I am in the planning stage for
       that.

   2) Completion of the Tool Tips

       I just think there should be more with more descriptions.

   3) Fixing $T and $F

       There has been no behemoth more destructive than my inability to plan ahead R’s
       insistence on type-casting column’s automatically resulting in $T turning into TRUE and
       $F turning into FALSE.

       I have, believe it or not, been trying to rectify this problem for ages now but bear with me
       some, the solution appears neigh.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        10/16/2023
Once these things are done, I have a curious thought to make the nascent LDPS bot available
for public use – but there are a few things I have to look into first in order to assure that’s, as the
kids say, copasetic with them4 .

Naturally the list doesn’t end there but I don’t quite want to pigeon-hole myself into too many
things right now, truthfully, but the list includes:

      1) Getting 𝑉𝑉 2 onto the Dashboard,
      2) Getting the Macro Report onto the Dashboard as an interactive bit,
      3) Getting more interactivity with options querying and displaying,
      4) Getting more expansive market scan search abilities (I’ve been talking with a fellow nerd
         about this for a few weeks now – it’ll be a bit of an undertaking but it will be worth it),
      5) Looking into the I-P Ratio more,
      6) Updating the Primers, and
      7) Establishing some sort of actual schedule for YT videos (if you have any suggestions on
         what I should talk about, let me know! I think I found an editor too, so, that’s nice).
If you have anything on your mind that I forgot to add to the list, let me know!

Justin




4
    That would be the SEC.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            10/16/2023
