                                 Weekly Chat 2026-03-16


                                       Main Points



       -   VoEx deepens within the P.Z. on $SPY and $QQQ
       -   Heatmap environment (for $SPY) demonstrates a local gamma squeeze once more.
       -   Market-Wide Gamma-Squeeze data showcase current positive growth and positive
           future expectations.
       -   LS&T analysis shows bearish liquidity throughout, and a faltering LT6 support on
           the weekly.



                                        SUMMARY



           Last week, visions were placed on the downside and so it came to
           be.

           This week, visions are renewed on downside due to VoEx, the
           gamma-squeeze orientation on the heatmaps, GS-growth and LS&T
           bearish liquidity.

           Some risk exists for the classic “bounce” – in support of which, we
           have only found LT6 on the weekly as a potential instigator.

           Overall, downside expectations have been affirmed and continue to
           grow!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat        for the week of             2026-03-16 to 2026-03-20
                                               DETAILS




Hello all!
                                        -    Important note at end! -
Last week, we had visions of downside and the market delivered quite nicely with $SPY moving
-1.15% and $QQQ moving -1.01% in the midst of lots of volatility. We can visualize the journey
below:




As we inferred last week, the purchasing support noted on $QQQ was likely only going to soften
to downside rather than prevent it completely, and this appears to be have been the case!
Thus, this week, our task is straightforward: are there any signs of a bounce or are our downside
expectations steeled against any such negative thoughts?

Let’s try to find out!
Steele

Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




Deepening within the Propagation Zone! Keeping things straightforward and simple this infers
downside on the near-term and long-term. There is currently no evidence of a VoEx-daily spike



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of             2026-03-16 to 2026-03-20
forming, and thus, no expectations from VoEx that a quick spot-burst is incoming. Only more
downside.
Checking in with the gamma-hedging heatmaps (excluding $QQQ due to some data issues), we
find:




The same orientation as we’ve seen in the recent few weeks! As with last week, the market is set
to start with selling pressure – a concerning initialization given the local gamma-squeeze
environment currently surrounding it!
This is a bullish sign overall but we should keep an eye out for particularly robust [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] in the
early-part of the week in attempts to keep the
market within purchasing support.
Abstracting out some, we find the Market-Wide
gamma squeeze data showcasing a substantial
increase this week! We can see this by comparing
last week’s weekly average of 958 with this week’s
weekly average of 1,377 – a 44% increase! This is
quite foreshadowing and foretelling of an
infortuitous future.




                                                         Additionally, in checking with the predictive
                                                         data, we find:
                                                             Substantial increase as well! This tells
                                                           us two things:
                                                         1)    The future is expected to have a
                                                         greater number of gamma-squeezes than it
                                                         currently does, and




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                 2026-03-16 to 2026-03-20
   2) The future is expected to have a great gamma-squeeze growth rate than is present!

Both of these combine to a pretty bearish picture, without much hope for a spontaneous bounce.
Another avenue we can check in on for evidence of a brewing bounce is the mean-reversion arena.
To that end, we find last week’s EPR (Expected price range) for $SPY was 2.62% - quite below the
realized move – and thus, there is minimal expectation for a mean-reversion driven event!
Moving onwards and upwards to checking in on liquidity, we find:




Some more incredibly bearish prints! On the whole, we find bearish liquidity on all timeframe and
the only evidence of support are:
         -   The already-failed scoop on the 987-minute wherein LT2 is attempting to perform what
             LT1 couldn’t, and
         -   LT6 on the weekly.
Admittedly, LT6 is quite robust in general, but we see that liquidity has already turned bearish on
the weekly and after testing LT6, we didn’t get much of a bounce! This begs the question as to
the robustness and longevity of LT6 – but doesn’t dismiss it completely.
Overall, the data are bearish and so too are the expectations,
Happy Trading!

Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2026-03-16 to 2026-03-20
                                               Note!

                                           Update time!
There is an upcoming Registration Event planned for next week. The RE is planned to consolidate
the various user-groups of Deep Dive Stocks to allow for better on-boarding and cohesiveness
throughout the ecosystem.
To do this, everyone is going to be removed from everything and in order to regain access you
must register. Its pretty straightforward – the process will be as follows:
         -   You will receive an email from `mail.deepdivestocks.com` in which there will be a
             registration code and a link to the registration website.
         -   Once at the website, you can enter in your email, TradingView username and Discord
             username (if you would like to be apart of the discord) and you will be registered to
             the appropriate services again.
Thus it is important that next week you plan on losing and regaining access to your TV scripts
(except for LTA). The scripts that you will be re-added to will not be the same as the ones you
currently have access to.
I apologize for any inconvenience but this is a necessary step for future improvements! If you
have any questions, please don’t hesitate to reach out.


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2026-03-16 to 2026-03-20
