                                    Weekly Chat 08/14/2023


                                          Main Points


       -   VoEx’s position on $SPY and $QQQ remains largely unchanged, residing still in the
           Propagation Zone.
       -   Hedging environments are stabilizing with $QQQ demonstrating a vanna-stable
           orientation,
       -   DLP behavior continues to be uninspiring,
       -   MWGS-data is bearish: growth and GTM are positive,
       -   VoEx Variance demonstrates continued over-heating but no there are still no signs
           of data form within the Propagation Zone.

                                           SUMMARY



           Last week, the main idea was that VoEx was inside of the Propagation
           Zone, and so downside should be expected.

           Little has changed to alter that outlook.

           In contrast to last week, GTM and MWGS-growth are positive, both of
           which provide stronger bearish prints than witnessed last week. In
           combination, this suggests a high risk for near-term downside.

           This near-term downside risk will need to be monitored for expansion from
           a quick “cooling off” to a quick “correction”. This can be most easily
           monitored via MWGS/GTM and 𝑉𝑉 2 while VoEx maintains its stay within
           the Propagation Zone.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     08/14/2023
                                            DETAILS




Hello all!
What an exciting week. The market went up, then down, then up again, then down again, and by
some accounts, it even went back up.

The totality of the market’s fury was a $SPY W-o-W move of -0.26% for $SPY and -1.56% for $QQQ
(a percent difference of 142%! ).
Last week, we left off with the notion that BUPO had ended due to VoEx persisting within the
Propagation Zone, and this week seems to have furthered that notion as VoEx’s location remains
relatively unchanged.
Thus, this week, let’s take a moment to look at some of the interesting changes that occurred
with the data, and then ponder what that might mean for us in the future.
[Note: If you haven’t, I highly recommend checking out last week’s Weekly Chat 2023-08-04!].
First, we will get a quick glimpse of how the week progressed through the lens of the Hedging
Heatmaps, followed by our analysis of VoEx, Gamma Hedging Heatmaps, DLPs, MWGS-data, and
VoEx Variance (𝑉𝑉 2).
From there, should the data smile in our favor, we may just end with a reasonable outlook for the
week ahead.

Let’s get started.
Le marché boursier donne

The week saw an early rise in both $SPY and $QQQ that brought both indexes into contact with
light selling pressure.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      08/14/2023
From there, we can see that the market “slid down” on the edge of purchasing support. Curiously,
we see that $QQQ had a more steep “ramp” going downwards as compared to $SPY and also
happened to move significantly more to the downside.

Mapping the highs and lows for both price and IV onto the heatmaps, the boundary of gamma
                                              neutrality and the work the purchasing support
                                              put into the market becomes more distinctly
                                              evident.
                                                                    We can see just how well bounded the market
                                                                    was within gamma neutrality, and the
                                                                    boundaries of benefit of purchasing support to
                                                                    the left.
                                                                    Curiously – we can also see that it took very little
                                                                    selling pressure to be introduced into the market
                                                                    before suppression occurred, provoking
                                                                    purchasing support to start absorbing the eager
                                                                    ask1.
                                                                    It would seem the introduction of purchasing
                                                                    support in the lower-right quadrants (the $-/IV+
                                                                    quadrants) of the hedging environments was
                                                                    fortuitous this week, otherwise the market would
                                                                    have been left with an eager ask and no price-
                                                                    insensitive bid to absorb it!
                                                                    As the dive into the data continues, it will be
                                                                    interesting to see if there is any evidence that an
                                                                    eager bid should be present or if the market will
                                                                    be at the mercy of a price-insensitive bid’s ability
                                                                    to absorb an eager ask!


1
  Remember last weeks rant about eager vs. organic vs. price-insensitive movements? Well – let’s review those ramblings some
more.
When an equity’s price is falling, this indicates the transaction is occurring at the bid. A price that is falling whose transaction is
occurring at the bid is said to have an eager ask and an organic bid. That is, because an organic ask would resist the price falling,
as its best-interest is in the price rising (the ask wants to sell for a profit, not a loss), and an eager bid would meet the ask at the
higher-and-higher price points in order to transact.
Thus, we have three identifiable groups: an eager ask, an organic bid, and a price insensitive bid (the purchasing support being
introduced). An eager ask will meet the bid to transact, and an organic bid will continuously lower the bid to continue purchasing
at discount. All-the-while, the price-insensitive bid will simply transact at whichever cost basis required.
This leaves two missing groups: an organic ask and an eager bid – both of which work to move the price up! This is the same
situation we discussed last time: the role of the price-insensitive bid in this scenario isn’t to rise the price per se but rather to
absorb the eager ask such that it reduces the eager ask meeting the organic bid – and thus, stifles downside pressure. In extreme
situations, the goal is to stifle downside pressure long enough for an eager bid to enter the market or for the eager ask to run out
of liquidity. From there, things start moving back up!
Does this all sound hand-wavy? Perhaps. Is it against conventional thinking of the market and liquidity? Yes. And I think that is
key, as we shall (hopefully) see.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                                        08/14/2023
Et le marché boursier prend

Starting with VoEx as usual, we see that very little has changed this week:




Despite a quick foray back into stability on the 7th, the overall sentiment seems to be “down”.
Since VoEx’s rapid move into the Propagation Zone on the 2nd (2023-08-02), $SPY is down 1% so
far.
Conditions on $QQQ look similar but VoEx has been relatively significantly more erratic than its
cousin $SPY:




In both cases, the interpretation is straightforward: BUPO but this time Bearish until proven
otherwise.
As long as VoEx remains within the Propagation Zone, downside is to be expected.
This leaves us with the question: but how much downside? To start answering that, let’s first
move to the current hedging environments.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     08/14/2023
Very much the same presentation as last week:
       -   Both indexes will see purchasing support enter in the event of a spot down ($-) IV up
           (IV+) movement.
       -   Both influence distributions show a lean towards bullish performance with a left-sided
           tail risk present
       -   $QQQ persists in a vanna squeeze
Notice that for $QQQ, the sole determining factor for if selling (red) or purchasing (blue) enters
into the market is IV! This is a vanna squeeze. Typically, hedging direction is determined by
gamma and delta, and thus, price movement.
However, under certain circumstances and option
arrangements, IV can start to take control by way of
vanna. $QQQ’s arrangement is a “stable” vanna
squeeze such that if IV rises (IV+), purchasing enters
into the market. This is particularly convenient
because most circumstances of IV+ are
accompanied by $-.
Conversely, if IV drops too much (typically due to $+),
selling will be introduced into the market, working to
bring things back towards gamma neutrality once more.

We can see a variety of these types of configurations and how they played out below, along with
an ~unstable~ version on the far-right.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       08/14/2023
For the bears in the crowd this is less than ideal but still not a deal breaker: as we saw this week,
the purchasing support present was mostly in-charge of mopping up the ask rather than providing
a potent upwards force (as there seems to be little eager bid to accompany the ask-absorbing-
price-insensitive-bid).
For the bulls: there may be some hope of a bounce off of the purchasing support, but as is most
outcomes with stable-vanna-squeeze configurations, things tend to simply stagnate as the equity
cannot sustain a move without opposing forces quickly entering and reversing things.
Personally, since VoEx is in the Propagation Zone, I would consider suspect #2 from the prior
page to be the most “bullishly”-reasonable outcome, should I want to find one; mostly down but
with perhaps enough purchasing support to keep things neutral; should the purchasing support
digest the ask sufficiently.
Quite the mix of data! On one hand: VoEx – foretelling of significant downside on the short-to-
medium term but on the other hand: Hedging – foretelling of stabilizing forces, should IV+.
Who will win? Before we start diving in search of those answers, let’s first get a quick glimpse at
what our DLP friends are up to; perhaps they have already seen the treasures below.




Perhaps we can call our friends on $SPY an eager bunch (more eager than usual at least) but
overall the behavior is moot: one would expect that if those-that-shall-not-be-named thought the
recent downturn ($SPY has moved -2.65% since the start of the month, while $QQQ has moved -
4.32%) was nearing its end or that there was an appreciable bottom to purchase, they would start
doing so.
Yet, we see this isn’t the case with such moot performance, resulting in a minimally inspiring show
of force from our friends-with-money.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          08/14/2023
Perhaps to see the difference, or rather, the substantial lack-of-confidence being displayed by our
DLP friends, let’s take a quick look at some prior behavior – behavior that resounds with a tad
more resolve.




Alas! We see from not 1 year prior the real vigor that DLP sellers can have – with massive spikes
indicating some massive market gains.
Yet – lately there has been moot performance2. The lack of confidence seems very pronounced
– however it is uncertain as to which aspect of put-selling is dubious: is IV too low or is price too
high?
To the put-sellers benefit, both of these questions typically resolve in the same manner, so it is
rarely important which one it is!
To add to the bear-pile, on moving towards the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data, we
see GTM completed its little dip, and has risen quite strongly into positive territory.




2
  This graph looks slightly different than the graph in the macro report with respect to being more sensitive to put
closures. I, uh, accidentally improved a process when creating this graph. I will look more into this and update the
current data streams as necessary. Nonetheless, the point remains as the graph purpose is to demonstrate relative
large movement rather than magnitude of movement.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                        08/14/2023
MWGS-growth is positive, a
bearish     finding.   This
indicates that the rate-of-
change       for     gamma
squeezes is positive and
increasing (per the MWGS-
growth trend).
The results of this two-week
growth spurt can be seen on
the right with a 24% increase
in     gamma        squeezes
throughout the market as
compared to the 20-day
average (1,317 vs 1,056).
Despite Friday’s drop in
gamma squeeze counts,
GTM is still printing positive
values,   suggesting       the
overall movement within the
gamma currents is towards
ever-more gamma squeeze
growth.
Taken together, these are
wholly bearish prints.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat   08/14/2023
Our next stop is VoEx Variance – with $SPY and $QQQ entering and persisting within the
Propagation Zone, it seems reasonable to suspect some data prints should start showing up in
the bottom panel:




Still no data!

This suggests that although the more immediate-term data (individual ETF VoExes, MWGS-data,
DLP) may be pointing bearish, the market seems to still be chugging along and there is little
evidence for a larger-scale market correction.
In order to hold the view of a market-wide correction, it would be reasonable to start seeing
market-wide data prints within the Propagation Zone – something that we don’t current see.
But – if we want to complicate our lives even more, we can look “under-the-hood” to get a better
view of what 𝑉𝑉 2 is up to. More specifically, we can see above in the Inhibition Zone that 𝑉𝑉 2 dipped
a little – is this reflected in 𝑉𝑉 2’s velocity? (We might as well make 𝑉𝑉 2’s velocity simply 𝑉𝑉 3).
Let’s take a look:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            08/14/2023
𝑉𝑉 3 is decreasing! Despite the overall trend algorithm’s insistence that momentum is still pointed
upwards, we can see the 40-day rolling median of 𝑉𝑉 2 velocity per sector (by color) is definitly
decreasing.
Perhaps a nod that things are still quite unstable and this near-term bearish outlook does have a
growing potential to manifest into a larger market phenomenon.
Nonetheless, until the data on 𝑉𝑉 2 changes distinctly, it seems hard to extend the current bearish
views beyond the more immediate. In that, I am reminded of last week’s projections on where the
market would move if it did start sliding down:
                                                 “
Taken together, the market is in a high-risk place for reasonable downside on at least the short
   and medium timeframes. Last week, I mentioned that testing the LDPM-55 looked like a
    reasonable upcoming move for the market, and this seems evermore reasonable. This
              represents a ~7% decline on $SPY and a ~-3% decline on $QQQ.
                                                 “
LDPM-55 for $SPY is only sitting a paltry -1.34% away at $439.70 [current price: $445.65], while
$QQQ is sitting even close at -0.76% at $363.65 [current price: $366.24].


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        08/14/2023
The next liquidity level LDPM-89 seems a reasonable target given VoEx’s position in the
Propagation Zone. With that, $SPY’s LDPM-89 is sitting at $431.48 (-3.17%) and $QQQ’s is at
$362.09 (-3.86%).

So, overall, what do we have?
         -    VoEx inside of the Propagation Zone is a clear indicator of instability and this
              instability typically resolves on the downside;
         -    Per the hedging environments, downside will be met with reasonable purchasing
              support, however we saw this week how purchasing support’s limited absorption that
              a price-insensitive bid can only absorb so much eager ask.
         -    The put-sellers are not really put-selling, suggesting little confidence in profiting from
              either a $+ or IV- week;
         -    MWGS-data is wholly bearish with positive growth rates and GTM;
         -    Despite all of this, the data for now suggest that any downturn is relatively localized
              as 𝑉𝑉 2 is still printing ‘overheating” without any data prints yet in the Propagation Zone.
A tough batch of data but that isn’t too surprising during moments of transition for the market.
Heading into the week, I am hesitant to leverage the stasis-provoking vanna-squeeze orientation
on $QQQ into calendar spreads or iron condors due to the otherwise lack of bullish support should
the market slip past the lower-bounds of such positioning.
So as it stands, as the week progresses I will monitor my current shorts and should the data
continue to migrate towards “overall bearish” (MWGSC continues to increase, VoEx continues its
stay in the P.Z., GTM continues to print positive values, purchasing support starts to degrade on
the hedging environments, DLPs continue to be near-zero, etc.), I will start moving towards larger
short positions with the expectation that the downside should continue towards LDPM-89, during
which time, I will keep tabs on the MWGS-data and 𝑉𝑉 2 for continued guidance.
In the odd event that VoEx skyrockets into the I.Z. (see 2021-10), I will look to quickly absorb long
gains, but with a very eager finger on the “close all” button.

Perhaps next week, 𝑉𝑉 2 will have something more fun for us to gawk at!
Until then,
Happy trading –


Justin



P.S.: Quick note about developments below!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                              08/14/2023
I just wanted to take a moment to discuss some of the going-ons behind the scene. There are
three main areas of development right now, listed in order of significance:
   1- Dashboard Fixes / Improvements
      There are a few pesky bugs floating about that I am working on – these include (but not
      limited to):
      - Occasional DLP discrepancies,
      - Occasionally, the Single Stock Search will duplicate “VoEx Overexposed – Propagation
          ... ” row with conflicting values,
      - Stock Report List is taking way too long to load,
      - Some users exist with a persistent session after 8PM EST which prevents them from
          seeing the new data until the Dashboard hands a new session over,
      - Market Scan will classify VoEx as being in the wrong zone occasionally leading to
          erroneous Market Scan findings,
      - VoEx-trend calculation is being revamped to minimize discrepancies between its value
          on the Dashboard and the Reports, and
      - Currently, the data are very corrupted for $T, $F, and $TRUE due to someone’s brilliant
          idea of making abbreviated booleans a thing.

      In addition, there are a few improvements I would like to see come to the Dashboard in
      the near-term:
      -   Improved ability to customize graphs,
      -   Improved options visualization techniques
              o Ability to few option flow “through time”,
              o Ability to parse options based on their expiration,
      -   Expanded market scan capabilities to allow for more dynamic searching,
      -   Revamping of the “Events” column such that it will show all relevant events for that
          stock rather than the events as simply the search criteria (especially since we have
          the search criteria box now),
      -   Expanded Market Currents ETFs and reach, and implementation of a “Data Page”-like
          page for the data so that it can be interactively investigated,
      -   Implementation of account management, and
      -   Implementation of a “Bug reporting” tool so that if something strange happens, you
          can let me know from within the Dashboard.

   2- Educational Primers
      The Educational Primers have out-grown themselves and require a freshening up. The
      current primers are under-going an improvement process:
      - Tier I
      - Tier II
      - Hedging Heatmap Primer
      - Dealer Long Puts Primer
      - LDPM Primer




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     08/14/2023
   3- LDPM and LDPS
      Research is still on-going into LDPS and its ability to classify price movement as “weak”
      or “strong” with statistically significant consequences. When this research is done, LDPS
      will be released as another T.V. script that will be available only to Premium Members.
The goal is to have most items from (1), and (3) completed for the patch scheduled 09/08/2023
but I anticipate the educational primer updating will take a tad more time (I’m a slow writer).
I just wanted to keep you guys in the loop!
If there is anything else you would like to see added / changed or if you have any
comments/questions, please don’t hesitate to reach out.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     08/14/2023
