                                 Weekly Chat 06/19/2023


                                        Main Points


    -   Last week’s market performance provoked substantial instability.
    -   This showing of instability is more than what would be expected from a stable market.
    -   Downside is still expected.



                                         SUMMARY


          This week, $SPY’s VoEx has started moving (spiking?) rapidly out of the
          Inhibition Zone, and $QQQ’s behavior is similar but not as robust.

          This provide a similar set-up as last week whereby $SPY’s VoEx is
          suggesting imminent downside while technically $QQQ’s VoEx is
          demonstrating continued BUPO since its Divergence disintegrated.

          VoEx Variance demonstrates a collapsing of VoExes throughout the
          market towards and into the Propagation Zone. Historically, this
          behavior is associated with near-imminent market corrections.

          The hedging environments offer little-to-no purchasing support in the
          event of a large $-/IV+ move, in particular $QQQ who is demonstrating an
          unstable Vanna Squeeze orientation.

          The MWGS data is still technically bullish but a close eye should be kept
          on them in the coming days.

          VoEx Anomaly demonstrates a large drop-off in VoEx Values greater
          than +2.0. This is also associated with near-term market downside.

          Overall, the data suggest that the market is unstable, the recent price
          appreciation made the instability worse, and downside is fast
          approaching.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        06/19/2023
                                                       DETAILS




[Quick Note! We have quite a number of new faces joining us this week! Hello! Because
fo you fresh faces, this Weekly Chat might be a tad longer than normal to help get
everyone caught up to speed – especially with some of the more unique data we are
pulling out recently, as the market grows ever-more exciting.]

What a week!

Last week, we left off with the idea that “… the market seems to be progressing as
anticipated, and as such, there is little reason to alter course … ” and, well, it turns out that
a slight alteration of course may have been fortuitous (our outlook was bearish).
So, as usual, let’s review the data and how it progressed throughout the week (there was
quite a lot of very interesting changes!), franticly wave our hands around while concocting
a plan for the future, and then let’s discuss some fun LDPM changes!

The week

Last week, if we were to quickly summarize les raisons d’etre (bearish) it was:

    1) Things were progressing as planned via VoEx Divergence 1 on $QQQ, and
    2) GTM (if you’re not a data nerd) appeared to be headed northward.

This provided the foundation for bearish sentiment that was ultimately maintained
despite several other conflicting data prints:

    1) $SPY was showing BUPO (bullish-until-proven-otherwise), and
    2) GTM (if you’re a data nerd) was actually printing negative values.

But ultimately, the threat of a bullish outlook was ultimately minimized, primarily on the
basis that the put-sellers weren’t selling puts, and since they tend to be well timed, this
tipped the scales in favor of a continued bearish outlook.

Well - with $SPY moving +1.3% and $QQQ moving +2.06%, it seems that we chose the
wrong side this week!


1
 VoEx Divergence is outlined in Tier II, pages 21-23 but the main gist is that VoEx Divergence is a sign that is looked
for once a stock’s price has provoked VoEx to remain in the Inhibition Zone for a prolonged period of time (a status
called “Persistent OverExposure”). Once VoEx Divergence starts, it is typically an indicator that the local maxima
has been reached, and downside should be expected. VoEx Divergence was first mentioned on $QQQ as noticed in
2023-06-05’s weekly chat.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                          06/19/2023
Since there was a growing difference between VoEx on $SPY and $QQQ (which is highly
atypical), there was concern regarding the divergent outlooks being provided, and as
such, a more comprehensive plan was necessitated.

For $SPY, it had entered into the BUPO (bullish-until-otherwise) holding pattern due to
VoEx’s quick ascent into the Inhibition Zone. However, this near-term bullish outlook was
at odds with $QQQ’s developing VoEx Divergence. This lead to the following:

                                                “
       … Am I overthinking things2? Probably. But [this behavior difference] highlights the
importance of keeping an eye on [$SPY and $QQQ’s] VoExes … particularly in the coming
 days: should VoEx on $SPY not start its own Divergence pattern and/or should $QQQ’s
 divergence disintegrate prior to VoEx moving out of the Inhibition Zone, there would be
                   sufficient cause to prepare for an impending rally
                                                “

The following Monday (06/12/2023), the first data print suggestive of an impending rally
surfaced:




VoEx Divergence had started to deteriorate on $QQQ. VoEx Divergence is simple: either
VoEx-trend is moving south out of the Inhibition ZOne, or its not, and if it’s not, it’s not
Divergence!




2
    As it turns out, no.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     06/19/2023
The Divergence deterioration continued into Tuesday (06/13 – a vexing development to
our established bearish outlooks:




This Divergence reversal was impactful enough to make its way onto ExVoEx (Extended
VoEx 3) data as well – showing not only a flattening of VoEx-trend but a reversal of its
trajectory




3
 Another VoEx? Yes! But no – not really. Extended VoEx (ExVoEx) is simply VoEx with a few extra ingredients that
help it extend more into the past. It helps give more long-term views.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                     06/19/2023
These Tuesday data prints from
VoEx were accompanied by an
increase in DLP 4s on $SPY, a
reduction in the MWGS-count, and
GTM diving even more negative.
All concurrent bullish data prints.

Thus, we can see that by Tuesday,
it was pretty solidified that the
week had other, more bullish,

                                                                    plans in mind.

                                                                    We can start to visualize the
                                                                    magnitude of these bullish print via
                                                                    $SPY’s and $QQQ’s journey through
                                                                    the hedging environments. Quite
                                                                    astonishing moves, almost directly
                                                                    upwards!

                                                                    As the market was chewing through
                                                                    the selling pressure with ravenous
                                                                    vigor, there were some curious
                                                                    changes underneath the surface:

                                                                    The first finding is not too
                                                                    uncommon in and of itself but it is
                                                                    one worth noting when it occurs:
                                                                      greater-than-expected-price-range
                                                                    (EPR) movements. This occurs
                                                                    when an equity moves more than the
                                                                    market was pricing – usually on the
                                                                    daily time frame but sometimes
                                                                    longer. Usually, these events just
                                                                    place the equity at a higher risk for
                                                                    mean reversion as the market works
                                                                    to absorb the unforeseen flow.

                                                  But there was accompanying data
prints that suggested this greater than EPR movement was more than “usual”.

The first was the concurrent increase in IV and LDPM-IV. Both of these are proxies for

4
 Dealer Long Puts. Rapid growth in DLPs is considered a bullish finding and the absence of such is thus considered
bearish.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                      06/19/2023
liquidity and their rise indicates diminishing liquidity. In an appreciating environment that
typically means there is significantly greater bid than ask. Is this because bid is
aggressively purchasing (to say, hedge something?) or is there a lack of supply?

Typically, this would put one in a slight warning-phase for potential mean-reversion. As
the aggressive bid becomes satiated, and is removed from the books, all that is remaining
is an artificially inflated price and an ask that will ultimately have to start moving down
and providing liquidity.

In an already unstable market, this certainly increases the chances for subsequent
downside. Yet – there was still the second data print that suggests there was more going
on than just a potential liquidity crunch: VoEx Spikes.

On        Monday,
almost all of the
indexes    (except
$XLU which is a
tad broke at the
moment)
experienced      a
substantial VoEx
Spike amount.

How many VoEx
Spikes? Well – it
was enough to put
every      index
(except $XLU) in
the top 0.10%
percentile    for
measured VoEx Spikes!

That’s insane 5.

This continued throughout the week, most notably in $XLE and $XLF, until Friday there
were only 26 VoEx Spikes (in the major indexes per the Market Currents).

Why does this change the outlook for simply an increased probability of mean reversion?
Well – under normal circumstances an equity or ETF exceeding its expected-price-range
(EPR) isn’t that instability-provoking. It’s usually is just a flash of aggressive bid or ask,
and once absorbed by the market, things go back to normal.


5
 Now, we are going to get into the VoEx Spike data a bit more later but if you are eager, I would recommend checking
out 2022-10-10’s Weekly Chat for a quick review of what we call VoEx Anomaly.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                       06/19/2023
                                 You can observe this by toggling on the EPR
                                 bands along with VoEx on the Dashboard:
                                 usually you don’t see massive VoEx Spikes
                                 during greater-than-EPR days.

                                 But here we see the entire market responded
                                 with robust signals of instability due to this
                                 greater-than-expected price movement.

                                 Thus, in combination of greater-than-EPR price
                                 moves coinciding with a observable liquidity
                                 crunch and massive VoEx Spikes, this places
                                 the market’s bullish performance this week in
                                 an elevated risk category.

                                 With evidence of numerous large and rapid
                                 VoEx movements, now might be a good time to
                                 look at the progression of VoEx Variance during
                                 the week6:

                                 From last Monday (top) to this Friday (bottom),
                                 the turbulence under the surface of the market
                                 can be seen quite plainly.

                                 From Monday’s          greater-than-before-seen
                                 number of VoEx Spikes, we see the majority of
                                 ETF’s VoExes were now situated in the
                                 Inhibition Zone: an incredible recipe for market-
                                 wide BUPO.

                                 As the week progressed, VoExes continued to
                                 migrate northward, culminating in the 15th’s
                                 (Thursday) VoEx Distribution heatmap showing
                                 the overwhelming majority of VoExes residing
                                 in the I.Z.

                                 6
                                  VoEx Variance is a measure of how spread out VoEx Values
                                 are throughout the entire market. Once calculated, the values
                                 are grouped based on their relative sector or ETF. There are
                                 two main ways to visualize VoEx Variance: the first is the
                                 distribution graphs (left) that show the overall distribution of
                                 all of the VoEx Values, grouped by sector; the second is the
                                 change-in-VoEx-Variance as seen by mapping the VoEx
                                 Variance values onto a time-graph such as a price chart. This
                                 graph is the second graph. Check out 2023-06-05’s Weekly
                                 Chat for more information and references.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   06/19/2023
As BUPO continued, Thursday experienced significant price moves throughout the
market, with $SPY moving +1.23% (which is 73% greater than the market’s expectations!)

On Friday, this instability seems to have cracked, as VoExes throughout the land organized
and efflux’ed themselves right out of the Inhibition Zone. A sign that BUPO is now
“otherwise”.

Lets visualize VoEx Variance through time and see how our current values hold up.




Hmm. Let’s enhance!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                06/19/2023
Oh my. That is quite the precipitous drop – especially considering it happened in all
sectors.

A casual reminder of how VoEx Variance informs us of future market moves:

In a healthy market, VoExes throughout the land are typically clustered near stability, with
some left-tails (VoExs that are in the P.Z.), and some right-tails (VoExes that are in the
I.Z.). This presents as reasonable variance (as observed in early-2021).

This variance can expand and contract as VoExes move around; when variance expands,
it indicates that more VoExes are moving out of stability and into either the Inhibition or
Propagation Zones. This spreading out of VoEx Values expands VoEx Variance, and the
squiggly lines start moving up [the squiggly lines on the graphs with $SPY’s price; the 40-
day median of VoEx Variance] while the curves of the first set of graphs [the distributions]
become wider and smaller).

Historically, this expanding VoEx Variance has been met with a sudden collapse just prior
to market corrections – we can see that in 2018-09, 2020-02, and 2021-12. Why does this
variance collapse happen? Well, we can see that in the distribution graphs above!

After stretching and over-extending into the Inhibition Zone, the instability this represents
eventually takes over, resulting in VoExes begin falling en masse out of the Inhibition
Zone, and start moving quite swiftly into the Propagation Zone. Since all of the VoExes
are now clustered at/near the Propagation Zone, there is little variance!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   06/19/2023
This presents with a sudden drop in VoEx Variance for all ETFs – exactly like what we see
above.

It should be noted, that it is this behavior that was able to tell us about the market bottom
having occurred in 10/2022. Since the only place to spread out from from the Propagation
Zone is either into stability of the Inhibition Zone: both of which are strong bullish findings,
and both increase Variance. So, as VoEx Variance started to rise, we considered this a
robust bullish print.

But now – we see the opposite occurring. We see, what can only be described, as quite
the precipitous drop. Feel free to take another look!

From historical context, this indicates a significant market correction within the next
month.

This week’s Weekly-Chat-goal was mainly to see if our anticipation for downside was
ruined by this week’s bullish performance, but based entirely off of VoEx and VoEx
Variance, I would say the preliminary answer to this is going to be: not at all, and quite the
opposite, really.

Now that we’ve quickly reviewed the data as it progressed through last week, let’s now
turn out attention to the more present data to see if we can put together a picture of what
to expect.

Starting with $SPY’s VoEx, we see the details of the overall picture we have been looking
at via VoEx Variance: a significant plunge out of the Inhibition Zone:




                                                                          With            rapid
                                                                          movement out of
                                                                          the Inhibition Zone,
                                                                          this seems like a
                                                                          forming       “VoEx
                                                                          Spike”     that    is
                                                                          indicative of the




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      06/19/2023
end of a bull run 7.

There is similar but less
robust behavior on
$QQQ.

Again,      there     is
frustration in $QQQ’s
lack of zeal, as once
again it seems $SPY
and      $QQQ      offer
differing         “most
reasonable” outlooks.

Since             $QQQ’s
Divergence           has
disintegrated, it has left
it in a Persistently OverExposed state (since VoEx trend is still in the Inhibition Zone),
which, as we have discussed, means bullish-until-proven-otherwise.

Yet – this is in contrast to our understanding of $SPY’s VoEx which is being interpreted
as spiking out of the Inhibition Zone, and thus, bringing an end to BUPO.

Ideally, much like last week, we would want to see one of these VoExes capitulate: either
$SPY’s VoEx rebounds into the Inhibition Zone (which would place it back into BUPO along
with $QQQ, providing evidence for yet another bull run), or VoEx on $QQQ resolves quickly
towards the downside (which would place it in a more bearish position, much like $SPY).




77
  When VoEx becomes Persistently OverExposed in the Inhibition Zone, this is bullish-until-proven-otherwise. The
until-otherwise is typically indicated by the appearance of a VoEx Spike out of the Inhibition Zone or VoEx
Divergence. It is worth noting that on larger OverExposed states, this VoEx Spike can form over the course of 2-3
days. $SPY’s can be said to have started on 06/15/2023 (Thursday).

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                     06/19/2023
                                                                          $SPY’s hedging environment is
                                                                          relatively stable – although there is
                                                                          diminished purchasing support in
                                                                          the event of a $-/IV+ move; at least
                                                                          its present!


                                                                          $QQQ’s heatmap is not-so-
                                                                          stabilizing 8, with no planned
                                                                          purchasing support entering the
                                                                          market in the event of $- and IV+.




Both     hedging     environments
demonstrate         an       overall
expectation for downside via the
Influence     Distribution,     and
strangely. Curiously, both show
quite     the    right-sided    tail
(indicating a low probability for
large positive price movement).

This overall bearish outlook is
echoed from the hedging
environments to the put sellers,
with a net closure of dealer-long
puts on both $SPY and $QQQ:




8
 $QQQ is showing a destabilizing vanna squeeze orientation! As IV increases (the crosshairs move to the right),
$QQQ meets more selling pressure, versus if IV decreases (the crosshairs move to the left), $QQQ sees purchasing
support. Thus, IV is controlling the hedging direction. It is unstable because, well, typically selling rises IV, which in
this case, will provoke more selling!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                             06/19/2023
                                                Lastly, we see that Market-Wide
                                                Gamma Squeeze growth data (MWGS)-
                                                growth is nearing positive values, and
                                                GTM is climbing into positive territory.

                                                              Like the other week,
                                                              these are still technically
                                                              bullish prints but I will be
                                                              closely watching them in
                                                              the next few days to see
                                                              if they start showing the
                                                              market starting to slide
                                                             into downside.

                                                     Which, at this stage in the game,
                                                seems like a relatively boring point to
                                                bring up.

                                                              So, what do we have all-
                                                              in-all?

                                                              Something is brewing.

                                                           We’ve been measuring this
                                                 something for awhile now, and with
                                              VoEx on $SPY crashing out of the I.Z.,
                                              VoEx Variance showing the tell-tale
                                              signs of a market correction inbound, it
seems unreasonable to assume a bullish stance for any length of time greater than what
it takes to capture some profit.

As the market approaches correction, I expect to see VoEx move into the P.Z. on $SPY
and $QQQ (and most other indexes), as well as GTM printing positive values while the
MWGS-growth trend moves into positive territory.

From there, it will simply be a matter of monitoring VoEx and VoEx Variance to navigate
the waters ahead.

Things might get fun!

Oh but we’re not done! Remember above when I said something like “we’ll be looking at
this VoEx Spike data again”, well – here it is!



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                               06/19/2023
VoEx Anomaly is a phenomenon whereby counting the number of VoExes throughout the
market that are less than -2.0 demonstrates some strange behaviors.

A good example of this comes from 2022-10-10’s weekly chat. In the graph below, if we
look every day for the number of VoEx values throughout the market that are lower than -
2.0, and map how many of those exist, we get this strange behavior.

There is a steady increase followed by an abrupt drop, and these abrupt drops are
associated with near-term large price movement:




With so many VoEx spikes, I thought it would be interesting to repeat these data
collections and see if there was anything interesting in the data.

And as it turns out! Nope!

Well – yes but nope. Yes because the lack of something is interesting but also nope
because there’s been no crescendo of VoEx values <-2.0 and thus, no drop!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                               06/19/2023
Even though this wasn’t what I was expecting, it still got my noodle cooking: we mainly
focused on VoEx values <-2.0 because at one point in time $SPY did something ~goofy~
with a VoEx value that low, which prompted further investiations.

But now, suppose we are using the wrong lens: what does it look like if we inverted these
data to show us the number of VoEx values that are greater than 2.0? Just like something
a Spike might produce?

Let’s calculate the data and before we look at 2023’s, let’s take a quick glance at 2020:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                 06/19/2023
Oh curious! Perhaps there’s something here.

Let’s look at 2022:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                06/19/2023
Ohh.

Unfortunately there isn’t much time to dive fully into this but it does appear as though
there are several trends that will be worth investigating (and that might help us currently,
nonetheless):

   1- Much like the <-2.0 cousin, it seems there is a strange behavior of progressively
      increasingly VoEx >2.0 throughout the market, interspersed with sudden drops.
   2- These sudden drops tend to produce large moves – with the two largest examples
      shown above.

So, with that in mind, let’s just see if we have anything brewing currently:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  06/19/2023
A drop!

Several things worth noting:
   1) The market had previously the most amount of VoEx Values >2.0 seen so far with
      recent values approaching 600! (2020’s peak was 400)
   2) A sudden drop has just occurred!

These data mostly confirm what we have been seeing with VoEx Variance: VoExes across
the land are collapsing out of the Inhibition Zone – and there is typically only one place to
go from so high up!

There may be some need to dig into these data a little more in the near future – but for
now, I think this suffice to show that something is brewing in the market – and it is
something that we have seen brew before.

As such, the outlook is officially: bearish-until-proven-otherwise.

Now let’s check out some of the LDPM changes!

                                      LDPM Changes

It’s been awhile but LDPM is getting a face-lift! There are some changes coming to LDPM-
proper (the tool you’ve been using already) along with the addition of a new tool: the LDPM
Scanner.

I will have a YT Video coming out describing the main changes so I won’t go into all the
Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   06/19/2023
details here, but I am pretty excited.

The new scanner tool is another “script”, so it will appear as another indicator in your
indicator list. It will probably be named “LDPM Crossover Scanner” so keep an eye out for
it. I will handle making sure everyone gets added to the new tool, so there’s nothing for
you to do on your end!

Happy trading,

Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                               06/19/2023
