                                 Weekly Chat 06/26/2023


                                         Main Points


    -   The longer-term outlook remains in effect.
    -   $SPY and $QQQ’s VoEx, however, suggests that the rough waters typical of unstable
        markets are arriving.
    -   This weeks outlook demonstrates an elevated risk for bullish performance.




                                         SUMMARY


          This week, the data suggest that the longer-term outlook for downside is
          still viable, but the classic rocky-waters associated with turbulent markets
          are here.

          VoEx on $SPY stopped short of entering into the P.Z., while $QQQ’s did
          the same but within Stability. This maintains $QQQ in BUPO, in-spite of its
          developing VoEx Divergence. $SPY’s resistance to the P.Z. also serves as
          a gentle pause towards committing to the market-correction fully just yet
          and elevates the risk for near-term upside.

          In response to this week’s downside, the market has started taking
          protective positions, ultimately leading to a stabilization in the hedging
          environments for $SPY and $QQQ. Both large indexes now have
          purchasing support in the event of a $-/IV+ move.

          MWGS-counts and growth are positive with the 5-day GTM printing
          positive values while the 10-day GTM prints negative values.

          In combination, the data are supportive for a bullish run in the near-term
          but still suggest longer-term downside.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       06/26/2023
                                                         DETAILS




Last week, we left off with the idea that the market was undergoing some changes, and
it was best if a bullish outlook was put on the back burner for now.

This served us well, with $SPY experiencing a decline of 1.42% while $QQQ fell 1.46%.

This week, as usual, we will take some looks at how the market progressed throughout
the week, turn out sights towards loftier, more future times, and then finally, ruminate on
hypotheticals.

The data-that-were

The review of the data this week is pretty quick, as most things progressed as planned.

Visualizing $SPY’s movements through its hedging environment this week1, Tuesday and
Wednesday stand out somewhat:




1
 The benefit of knowing the Influence Distribution is statistically significant 5 days into the future is that it allows
us to visualize an equities moves through the hedging environment from 5 days ago! Pretty nifty.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                             06/26/2023
On Tuesday (06/20/23), $SPY’s price and IV rose – an unusual combination. This was
followed by another unusual combination of $-/IV- on Wednesday (06/21/23). Curious!

And that’s about it for the review!

Before we get into the data and how it might treat us in the week ahead, it might be
worthwhile to remind ourselves of some recent history so that we can review our current
trajectory with a bit of context.

Per VoEx, since ~10/2022, the data were suggestive of longer-term bullish performance
due to VoEx-trend residing predominately inside of stability. However, come April 2023,
signs began to appear that this stability was eroding:

The first evidence that something was amiss came from 04/24/2023’s weekly chat. Prior
to this weekly chat, the market was in the middle of its normal “cycle 2”, but VoEx was
beginning       to     behave
erratically:

                 “
… First, we’ll start with some
    general observation:
    1) VoEx is indicating
          instability

Before we continue, let’s go
through each of the points
          above:

VoEx is indicating instability
              “


This behavioral change started to extend in such a way that by 05/15/2023’s Weekly Chat,
there was concern that the cycle was indeed broken, and a period of overheating was
about to occur:




2
  This can be visualized in $SPY’s VoEx between 10/2022 and ~04-05/2023. Notice that during this time, VoEx was
predominately inside of stability, but it was oscillating every several months between the Propagation Zone and
the Inhibition Zone. This behavior provided a good honing-rod for overall market moves while still providing a
longer-term bullish outlook (since VoEx-trend was predominately inside of stability the entire time).

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                    06/26/2023
                                                 “
Does this suggest that the normal “cycle” of the market is still in effect? That is, should
  we expect some near-term downside while the overall long-term movement of the
                                market is upwards?
                   $QQQ’s VoEx suggests that this may not be the case …
                                             “

These observations were weighed against the current longevity of the cycle thus far but
as VoEx on $QQQ definitively rose into the Inhibition Zone, followed by $SPY, the
remaining doubts of a “second wind” bull-run were deteriorating.

VoEx’s developments were natural extensions of the perceived growing instability, and by
05/22/2023’s Weekly Chat BUPO was officially established, resulting in a review of how
this instability typically ends:

                                             “
The take-home message here is that now that both VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ are in the
 Inhibition Zone, we should consider it bullish until VoEx Divergence or a VoEx Spike
                    occurs. Now, let's take a peek at VoEx Spikes

                                             “

So, since then, we’ve been patiently waiting for either VoEx Divergence or VoEx Spikes to
demonstrate the end of this unstable-bull-run and bring about the market dip that’s been
expected for the last 2 months.

The growing concern, however, is that the longer this instability reigns, the more
significant the downside tends to be.

And since we have seen $SPY’s VoEx Spike and $QQQ’s VoEx Divergence, it seems
reasonable to expect that the current price-action, or the price-action to-come, should be
results of instability – and instability always resolves on the downside.

All this to say, we’ve been watching this storm brew for the past two months and the
definitive signs are here that we are approaching the outer walls of this as we sail on
through the market, and with storms, come rough waters.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  06/26/2023
The data

Starting as usual with VoEx, let’s take a peek at what we were treated to this week:




If I were amendable to putting memes in Weekly Chats, I most certainly would. But we are
civilized here – we don’t do that 3.

$SPY’s VoEx Spike started on 6/18/23 (last Thursday) and continued throughout the week
– a sign of an ending BUPO. As the spike progressed, the outlook was that VoEx would
fall rapidly into the Propagation Zone, whereby we could expect initiation of the
anticipated market correction.

So naturally, VoEx stopped right at the Propagation Line.

This leaves me with the thought we had from last week regarding the discrepancy
between $SPY and $QQQ’s VoEx:

                                                       “
Ideally, much like last week, we would want to see one of these VoExes capitulate: either
  $SPY’s VoEx rebounds into the Inhibition Zone (which would place it back into BUPO
along with $QQQ, providing evidence for yet another bull run), or VoEx on $QQQ resolves
  quickly towards the downside (which would place it in a more bearish position, much
                                       like $SPY).
                                                       “

Without commitment into the Propagation Zone, one must worry of a rebound in SPY’s

3
    https://tenor.com/view/skeptical-futurama-fry-hmmm-i-got-my-eyes-on-you-gif-17101711

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                             06/26/2023
VoEx 4 and a resultant bullish run as VoEx in stability is bullish (but, to be fair, “stable”
bullish, which the market is most certainly not), as well as VoEx climbing back into the
I.Z.
This concern is echoed in $QQQ’s VoEx which failed to do, well, much of anything other
than stay inside of the Inhibition Zone:




Well, that and start VoEx Divergence once again – but shall we allow ourselves to be
fooled yet again? Probably.

And this is where the parabole comes into play: with an approaching storm, it is
unreasonable to suddenly expect the clouds to clear, and the gentle waves of a calm
ocean to carry us on and upwards – but it isn’t unreasonable to expect large waves during
a storm to also carry us on and upwards suddenly. And although the plan may not be to
weather the storm’s waves, but the storm itself, one cannot take on too much water in
the interim.

Thus, with apparent verification that the storm is in-fact here, the recent VoEx turbulence
also suggests there may be a rogue wave approaching.

To try to navigate more local waters, let’s move towards the Hedging Environments to see
if they can help.




4
 A good example of what I mean is from $SPY at 12/2021. Notice how VoEx rapidly dove into the Propagation
Zone, only to rapidly rebound into the Inhibition Zone. An unstable VoEx is an unstable stock.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                  06/26/2023
It has been quite a while, but it appears its finally re-emerged: congruence between $SPY
and $QQQ’s hedging environments! This congruence tells of a rather stable hedging
environment – an interesting development.

Although not an exact 1:1 with regards to the options flows and the hedging environments
ultimate “form” 5, we can see there are some signs of protective movements in the market:
namely Dealer Long OTM Calls and Dealer Short OTM Puts on both $SPY and $QQQ:




These are options flows consistent with more stable, mature markets. Perhaps our put-
selling friends have switched gears!

In combination, having a hedging environment on $QQQ and $SPY that is supportive in a
$-/IV+ event, along with more stable options flows, suggests that the market,
paradoxically, may be anticipating downside.

The benefit that we have with this insight, is that we know what happens typically when
the market braces for a move: typically, the opposite occurs; and this isn’t too hard to

5
 Gamma hedging is rather dynamic and doesn’t follow the same rules as delta hedging. Namely, the addition of
options and its effects on the subsequent delta hedging can actually be reverse from the expected hedging
direction. In a gamma hedging paradigm, it isn’t unreasonable to expect a dealer short call (providing short delta)
to actually cause selling instead of purchasing with the price rises!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                        06/26/2023
reason.

Risk-on markets are typically raging-bull-markets wherein participants are eager, and keen
to participate in high-risk, high-reward plays because any loss can be made whole by the
net movement of the market; lost $1 million on a bearish outlook for an earnings play? It’s
okay – the current bull market will help alleviate that with little to no work, just buy some
shares and let time handle the rest.

This creates a market wherein everyone is jubilee-ing, causing the foundations to start to
crack: hedging becomes aggressive and lop-sided, liquidity becomes a mess, etc 6. Then,
when the house of cards starts to fall, everyone is risk-on and very much so unprepared.

The opposite is true for perceived risk-off markets where caution reigns supreme: one
typically isn’t too keen to sell puts when there is no guarantee of recovery when there is
no money-making-bull-market around.

The effect, of course, of this risk-off behavior is that this actually stabilizes the market.
Not only does it introduce cautious options plays (selling calls, buying puts), which in turn
stabilizes the hedging environments, providing a nice passive bid on the market
throughout; gamma squeezes diminish, liquidity becomes balanced, it also minimizes
unnecessary and difficult-to-manage exposure throughout the market.

Now, some of you may feel like this story is similar – so similar, in fact, that you may
remember that DDS even has a name for this phenomenon: Retail Syndrome. Without
starting a new rant (there’s only 1 allowed per Weekly Chat), Retail Syndrome is the idea
that the market will invariably always move opposite of what the retail market expects.

This phenomenon has some psychology to it (buy the rumor, sell the news, etc.), and it
appears to also have foundational support with regards to hedging influences
specifically. So much so, that the 𝐸𝐸 3 Algorithm is designed to capture that alpha 7!

All this to say, I think that’s what we are observing in the market currently. The recent
downside seems to have spurred some protective measures from market participants.
These protective measures are now poised to provide purchasing support on $SPY and
$QQQ should they experience a $-/IV+ move.

It should also be noted that the Hedging Environment’s influence distributions are
anticipating positive gains for the next five days as well.

Skipping over the DLP data prints (as they are the same; decreasing), we can move over
to a slightly curious development in the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data.

6
 A classic example of this is $MSFT vs. $TSLA! I even did a video on it.
7
 The E3 Algorithm, or Earning an Earning with Earnings, is a prototype algorithm designed to capture the benefits
of identifying RS. Although not deployed, its recent beta testing within DDS showed very promising results.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                      06/26/2023
The MWGS-growth (gold line,
and black line, top graph)
demonstrate the net-positive
growth in gamma squeezes
– not an unsurprising
development.

This is echoed in the middle
graph, showing that we are
now currently above the 20-
day average (1,480 vs.
1,376).

Curiously, however, GTM is
still printing negative values,
suggesting that the future
gamma-squeeze            counts
should decrease, which is an
odd outlook considering the
recent increase        in their
growth – and in particular
when GTM was printing
negative values all-the-while
MWGS-counts                were
growing..

Can this be reconciled?
Perhaps – if we zoom in on
the data some, we do start
seeing positive GTM values:




                                  Perhaps in these more turbulent
                                  markets, a closer eye on GTM is
                                  warranted.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                         06/26/2023
So, in sum, we started the weekly chat briefly looking at our past trajectory and how it has
landed us with the paradigm that a market-wide correction was brewing. This was
evidenced early by changes in VoEx’s behaviors, followed thereafter by Persistent
Exposure in the Inhibition Zone, expanding VoEx Variance, VoEx divergences, and a few
other markers letting us know we were still headed in the right direction (towards the
storm!).

But now that we are nearing the storm we’ve been watching brew, the winds and waves
are picking up. We’ve navigated these waters before, but it is always a cautionary journey.
Having a distinct and clear outline for what you expect or don’t expect to happen
depending on one’s given outlook is paramount.

So, with these more recent bullish data prints, is the course re-charted for around the
market-storm? No – not quite. I don’t take these data points to suggest the market
downside has been halted, even with the heightened expectation for bullish performance
in the week ahead but merely that there seems to be a rogue wave approaching.

Physics

Anyone who knows me, knows me. And they also know that I hate physics – with a
passion. Something about treating mathematics with so little respect such that its
acceptable to put constants into expressions for balancing irks me, but that isn’t to say
that a fumbling physicist doesn’t find an interesting concept once and awhile.

The last one to do so was Newton – the man who spent his life going crazy in his attic
trying to create Alchemist’s Gold, raving about the occult: an academic in the truest sense.

With Newton in mind, I’ve been turning my attention to LDPM where I’ve been crying
racking my brain with how to extract more concise information from our understanding
and measuring of liquidity.

Well, I’m pleased to say that the fruits 8 of this labor seem to be …. fruiting. Let’s take a
look!




8
    A sad pun about how few apples hit Newton’s head.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   06/26/2023
Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat   06/26/2023
What is this, you cry?

Well, let’s suppose it is beneficial to know if price is being predominately moved by the
bid or the ask.

Traditional metrics would have you simply look at the price-action and deduce therefrom
the answer: if the price is going up, obviously the bid is meeting the ask, and as such, it is
the dominant force; conversely, if the price is going down, obviously the ask is meeting
the bid, and as such, it is the “aggressor”.

But is this always true?

What if the ask is handing away shares – not in an aggressive kind of way but rather in a
“no, I think it’s better that you hold onto this for the next few months” kind of way. What if
we could see when trades are being traded eagerly or passively? In less theatrical words,
is it possible to ascertain bid/ask dominance regardless of the underlying price
movement?

I think you can! And to a reasonable degree, I think. To do so, we turn to our beloved LDPM.

Let’s start by considering two situations: an equity that experiences many LDPM
crossovers (let’s say, on the daily timeframes but it ultimately doesn’t matter) and one
that has few LDPM crossovers.

Here, it would appear that the equity with many LDPM crossovers (LDPM-COs) is
experiencing poor liquidity: sometimes when there’s a bid present, the price gets pushed
up, the equity experiences a bullish CO but as soon as that bid is absent, liquidity is
removed, the ask has to move down to the next bid, a bearish crossover occurs, and the
cycle repeats9.

In contrast, an equity with good liquidity should have fewer LDPM-Cos because, well,
things are running smoothly – there isn’t concern that the absence or presence of a
handful of bid or ask will fundamentally alter the stock’s price-action 10.

So then, with this in mind, let’s construct the following rule-set for any crossover ℂ, and
its respective cross-over-type (bullish or bearish) as ℂ𝑡𝑡 , where ℂ𝑡𝑡 > 0 is bullish, and
ℂ𝑡𝑡 < 0 is bearish.


9
  This is the standard concept of liquidity: in lower liquid environments, smaller volume will cause larger price
movements and conversely, in highly liquid environments, larger volumes can trade without affecting the price
much. We are just viewing this relationship through LDPM Crossovers.
10
   It’s akin to running a group project: in a group where things are organized and running smoothly, the absence of
a single member may be “overcome”, whereas if the group is disorganized and not running smoothly, than it may
be less flexible in the event of a particular member’s absence.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                       06/26/2023
Rule                                    Expression                            Significance


LDPM Crossover frequency increasing                   𝛿𝛿ℂ > 0                        Poor liquidity Status

LDPM Crossover frequency decreasing                   𝛿𝛿ℂ < 0                        Good liquidity status




       Reasonable so far.

       Given the number of crossover events, to start our investigation we just need to find the
       velocity of LDPM – we can do that. But this doesn’t tell us anything about the probable
       price-action: an equity with an aggressive bid and poor liquidity will move substantially
       up, not down. That is to say, the mere presence or absence of poor or good liquidity
       doesn’t infer price-direction.

       To help cover this blind-spot, suppose we expand our view to include the type of LDPM
       crossover. That is to say, suppose for some cross-over event ℂ, if the crossover is bullish,
       we can consider ℂ > 0 and if the crossover is bearish, we can consider ℂ < 0.

       Let’s fill out the table some more with this knowledge:
Rule                                          Expression                         Significance


LDPM Crossover frequency increasing and the          𝛿𝛿ℂ > 0 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 ℂ𝑡𝑡 > 0         Poor liquidity Status with
net cross-over type is bullish                                                            dominant ask

LDPM Crossover frequency increasing and the          𝛿𝛿ℂ > 0 and ℂ𝑡𝑡 < 0             Poor liquidity status with
net cross-over type is bearish                                                             dominant bid

LDPM Crossover frequency is decreasing and           𝛿𝛿ℂ < 0 and ℂ𝑡𝑡 > 0            Good liquidity status with
the net cross-over type is bullish                                                       dominant bid

LDPM Crossover frequency is decreasing and           𝛿𝛿ℂ < 0 and ℂ𝑡𝑡 < 0            Good liquidity status with
the net cross-over type is bearish                                                       dominant ask




       What does the table mean by “dominant bid” and “dominant ask”?

       Well, suppose I go to the local market and I want to buy an apple to pelt at Newton. J’arrive
       at the market, and I proclaim: “I want an apple! I’ll spend $5”.

       Upon hearing this, let’s suppose 𝛿𝛿ℂ > 0, that is, we have poor liquidity (the number of
       Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           06/26/2023
       crossover events is increasing). This means things aren’t going to go all that well for me.

       Suppose this un-smoothness is because there is only 1 apple seller that day – Rob. Rob
       assess the situation, and understands that, in the hour of my need, he is willing to part
       with an apple for a mere: $10. But – I refuse.

       I know my worth – and I can eat apples anytime of the day, I can wait. And so I wait – all
       the while, as it turns out, Rob really needs to sell this Apple or Mr. Risk-Compliance is
       going to have a Mr. Word with Mr. Rob.

       Thus, Rob walks over, and transacts the apple exchange for $5.

       Now suppose that after I j’arrived at the market, proclaimed my need, and noticed that
       liquidity is good (𝛿𝛿ℂ < 0)! So, I can expect things go smoothly! I walk in, buy an apple for
       $5, and go about my day.

       Who was “controlling” the market’s in these two examples? Who was the dominant party?

       In the first it was the bid – they, in a low liquidity-state – had little recourse but to go to
       the bid due to extrenuous demand, despite being the only ask. In the second case, it was
       also the bid, as with so many sellers about (liquidity is good), there is little reason to
       haggle: a bid comes, an ask comes, and the are transacted.

       Let’s expand this further: what if we could look at the change in velocity? What if we could
       see if there were moments of sudden shifts in the relative dominance being asserted?
       That is, consider that:


       In combination, we get the following table:

Rule                                    Expression                        Significance


LDPM Crossover frequency’s frequency                 𝛿𝛿 2 ℂ > 0                 The dominant force is
is increasing                                                                 becoming more aggressive

LDPM Crossover frequency’s frequency                 𝛿𝛿 2 ℂ < 0               The non-dominant force is
is decreasing                                                                 becoming more aggressive


       Now, let’s look at these data again but on one chart:




       Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     06/26/2023
Rule                                        Expression                       Significance


LDPM Crossover frequency’s frequency             𝛿𝛿 2 ℂ > 0 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 ℂ𝑡𝑡 > 0     Bid is becoming increasingly
is increasing and the net cross-over type                                               aggressive
is bullish
LDPM Crossover frequency’s frequency             𝛿𝛿 2 ℂ > 0 and ℂ𝑡𝑡 < 0        Ask is becoming increasingly
is increasing and the net cross-over type                                               aggressive
is bearish
LDPM Crossover frequency’s frequency             𝛿𝛿 2 ℂ < 0 and ℂ𝑡𝑡 > 0        Ask is becoming increasingly
is decreasing and the net cross-over type                                               aggressive
is bullish
LDPM Crossover frequency’s frequency             𝛿𝛿 2 ℂ < 0 and ℂ𝑡𝑡 < 0        Bid is becoming increasingly
is decreasing and the net cross-over type                                               aggressive
is bearish




       With these data, we can now assess:

          -   Who is the dominant force in the market: bid or ask
          -   Who is becoming the more dominant (aggressive) force: the bid or the ask,

       and by extension:

          -   Who is the non-dominant force, and
          -   Is the dominant force weakening

       That would be pretty handy, no?




       Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       06/26/2023
So now, let’s officially introduce this plot. Using the table on the last page, we can start
making some observations:




The top shows the raw-count change in the number of LDPM crossovers on a 40-day
rolling basis, with the dots representing the median cross-over type: blue for bullish, red
for bearish.

The middle graph shows the frequency, or velocity, of LDPM crossovers, colored in the
same way.

The bottom graph shows the frequency of the frequency, or acceleration, of LDPM
crossovers, colored the same way.

The middle plot is where the meat-and-potatoes of this discussion lay but I definitely


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  06/26/2023
recommend peeking through all three as there seems to be a good bit of data packed into
these (these data may warrant another primer so, I’m sure there will be more rants, don’t
you worry).

I am going to mull these data over for now, but I wanted to introduce them to you now as
I think this is the formation of yet another tool for DDS.

Our current situation per these data suggest that we are experiencing a decreasing in the
frequency of LDPM crossovers (since ~12/2022) with mostly bearish crossovers
prevailing (except for that one blotch of blue ~04/2023) which suggests a pretty
consistent dominant bid on the market.

The current data prints for the type of LDPM crossover, however, show a positive change:
i.e.: currently we see 𝛿𝛿 2ℂ < 0 and ℂ𝑡𝑡 < 0 and it appears ℂ𝑡𝑡 < 0 → ℂ𝑡𝑡 > 0, in other words,
the crossovers are becoming less bearish and thus, more bullish.

What’s also most curious to me, however, and why I really enjoy the data presented like
this, is it shows when the market is buying the dip or not.

For instance, notice how in early 2022, the until 06/2022, all market dips were met with
𝛿𝛿 2ℂ > 0 and 𝛿𝛿ℂ < 0 : indicating that there was no real pause to the ask’s aggression even
during the local dips occurring in the overall larger market-downturn, whereas during
10/2022 that a definitive 𝛿𝛿 2ℂ > 0 and 𝛿𝛿ℂ > 0 occurred during a dip!

That’s an aggressive bid on a dip!
This also happens to be the dip!
And it also happens to occur at the same time as VoEx Variance’s behavioral change!

How very exciting.

There will be more on this, but I think my ranting has lived on long enough today –


Happy trading,

Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    06/26/2023
