Weekly Chat 07/29/2024


 Main Points


    -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ have moved rapidly into the Propagation Zone.
    -   $SPY presents with a vanna-stable hedging environment while $QQQ presents with a
        vanna-unstable environment.
    -   LDPM and LDPS suggest bearish outlooks on the daily time frame and lack evidence
        for a robust counter-argument from the 4-hour timeframe.
    -   Put-selling on $SPY has increased drastically in the past week. This behavior is not
        noted within $QQQ.
    -   Overall, significant risk for downside.

          SUMMARY



          As the downside grows, so too does our time-horizons. Initially, the idea
          was that downside would be well-isolated but as the data emerge, it
          appears as though the downside is beginning to spread.

          VoEx-daily for both $SPY and $QQQ have plunged into the Propagation
          Zone, a sign of imminent downside. The force of this movement was
          significant enough to move VoEx also into the Propagation Zone,
          extending the downside anticipation from just the near-term to the
          medium-term.

          LDPM and LDPS both show bearish orientations on the daily and 4-hour
          timeframes.

          Put-selling on $SPY has increased significantly as the week progressed;
          perhaps due to the anticipation of a falling IV. This behavior was not noted
          within $QQQ.

          Overall, prudency suggests significant caution due to prevailing robustly
          bearish data prints.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       07/29/2024
 DETAILS




Hello!
Last week, we left off with the idea that downside was neigh, and that our prior assessment of
localized downside was faulty (given that the initial short-term expected time horizon had passed
already into the medium-term), and there was suspicion that this error-in-judgement may still be
extant, and as such, we moved to investigate the data for evidence of to either repudiate or
substantiate said suspicion.
The week ahead (last week) worked to substantiate our suspicions by way of moving $SPY -0.83%
and $QQQ -2.58%. These moves are within the T+5 EPR boundaries for both, with $SPY having a
T+5 EPR ±1.65%, and $QQQ ±2.29%. These moves can be seen below in the heatmaps:




Nothing too remarkable but perhaps there is room for appreciation that purchasing support
existed on $QQQ.

Before moving to VoEx (as usual), let’s take a peek at LDPM/LDPS on $SPY and $QQQ. Below is
$SPY and $QQQ with LDPS (balanced setting) and LDPM (LDPM-Fib loadout with LDPM-144
added).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      07/29/2024
Above we see $SPY (top) and $QQQ (bottom) presenting with some curious features:
   1) The week provoked bearish liquidity per LDPS for both,
   2) Both have fallen below LDPM.
These are quite bearish signs! We can also see that $QQQ is showing persistent bearish liquidity,
despite $SPY’s attempt to re-capture LDPM-89 with some bullish liquidity.
This presents with downside expectations. The ideal would be waiting until we see the start of
“the Scoop”.
What’s the Scoop? Let’s find out by first “zooming in some” by moving from the daily interval to
the 4-hour.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      07/29/2024
In the top panel for $SPY, we see bearish liquidity via LDPS, and we see the lower-order LDPMs
(LDPMs less than 89), are acting as a “floor” of liquidity for $SPY. The anticipation here (for bullish
outlooks) is that the lower-order LDPMs will keep price afloat until confrontation with the higher-
order LDPMs, at which time, one would hope liquidity has turned bullish for the “push-through”.

If LDPS were saying bullish liquidity, then there could be reasonable expectation for a “successful”
test of the high-order LDPMs (i.e.: a bullish crossover), but this isn’t the case just yet. As such,
there is expectation that a rejection should occur after testing LDPM-89, unless the price just falls
beforehand, of course.
Below on $QQQ we see a similar, albeit seemingly more severe, presentation for $QQQ. In a similar
vein, the lower-order LDPMs have moved below the price some. This usually works to stall the
price descent (as we can see from 12:00 onwards on $QQQ for the last 6 bars). The ideal would
be the scoop then comes along and “scoops up” the price, and with bullish liquidity, would meet
the high-order LDPMs and initiate a bullish crossover.
But – this is a weak scoop. What do I mean by that? Well – let’s take a peek at some other scoops!
Below are two examples of “the Scoop” which is typically associated with the reversion-process
of a downturn in price. The top panel shows CPRX with a Failed Scoop (and some of the
associated before-hand-findings), and the bottom panel shows BTC futures with a successful
scoop.
Take a peek!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            07/29/2024
To quickly cover the main points: a scoop looks like it is going to be successful when:
   -   The lower-order LDPMs (any LDPM <55) have well defined trajectories. It should be
       immediately down, and then immediately up.
   -   There is usually an association with a nearing higher-order LDPM test and the presence
       of bullish liquidity per LDPS.
   -   During the scoop, the highest-order LDPM typically acts as the “Floor” with the lower-order
       LDPMs supporting. Breaking “through” this “base” (the higher-order LDPM) constitutes a
       “puncture” and suggests the scoop has broken.
   -   The scoop ends once the price is above LDPM-144 / LDPM-89.
So, with that in mind, let’s take another look at the 4-hour views:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       07/29/2024
On this view we see no real development of “the scoop” on $SPY – which suggests, well, nothing
really. We can leave the assessment at: bearish!
$QQQ does show some “scoopage”, but we see there’s evidence that the scoop has already been
broken early in the process. Since then, persistent bearish liquidity and messy rebounds.

If one were looking for a robust example of scoopage-leading-to-recovery, this would not be the
best of examples!
Thus, per LDPM and LDPS, things are concerning! Moving back to the daily interval, we can see
that $QQQ has presented with a “Splash”, and as the price falls, the next step to anticipate is for
LDPM-13 to start zoomin’ down to “scoop” the price. Until then, LDPM and LDPS on the daily
present with bearish outlooks, and this is echoed when we zoom in.

Now, let’s continue with our regularly scheduled programming!
Starting with VoEx, we see pure concern:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        07/29/2024
                                               Extreme movement into the Propagation Zone
                                               noted on $SPY and $QQQ from both VoEx (golden
                                               line), and VoEx-daily (magenta).

                                               This brings with it the traditional expectation of
                                               downside; this time with a little bit of spice.
                                               Short-term downside expected per VoEx with
                                               extension into the medium-term seemingly
                                               reasonable.
                                               As the days progress, it may be worthwhile to keep
                                               an eye out for VoEx-daily spiking should the price
                                               stall and/or appreciate. This will be a continued
                                               sign of instability.




Moving from VoEx to the hedging environments, we see much the same orientation as last week:




With a vanna-stable orientation on $SPY and a vanna-unstable orientation on $QQQ, it seems the
two are poised to be opposites in the week ahead once more.
The slight difference, however, is that both are currently sitting in purchasing support! Perhaps
some early-week support will push things up some, but, worth noting that said movement’s
longevity will be worked against by $SPY’s selling pressure.
In looking at our put-selling-friends, we can see that this week produced some significant activity,
most notably on $SPY:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         07/29/2024
At first it is tempting to put this in the “extreme bullish outlook” box for our put-selling-friends, but
I pause initially at the lack of concurrent response in $QQQ’s put-selling – do the $QQQ
compadres just not feel the same way?

Perhaps we’ll never know – and the consequence of this inevitability is that it makes discerning
the difference in behavior difficult.
In-sum, it seems that the $SPY put-sellers are convinced in some profitability existing in either $+
or IV-, and have seemingly bet a good amount on that. $QQQ put-sellers, on the other hand, are
less convinced.
Moving from put-selling to the MWGS data we see: not much (not shown). Some GTM negative
prints occurred but for now, gamma squeeze growth is still negative and the week experienced a
net decrease in gamma squeezes. So, for now, it seems that the under-currents of gamma are
seemingly isolated for the nonsense above.
Taken together, this paints a rather dangerous picture for near-term, significant downside on the
short-, and medium time-horizons.
Taking a peek at VoEx Variance (not shown), there is a singular point of data within the
Propagation Zone. We’ll check back next week to see how things have progressed.

So, overall, the downside risk we’ve been monitoring does seem to have expanded, and with some
ferocity. In the near-term, high-risk for volatile movements with overall resolution likely to the
downside. The timeframe seems to have extended into the medium time horizon.
Happy Trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                             07/29/2024
