                                  Weekly Chat 09/23/2024


                                         Main Points



    -   VoEx is up.
    -   Gamma hedging environments are blue and supportive.
    -   DLP behavior is absent.
    -   High risk for bullish performance with some consideration towards a minor pullback.



                                         SUMMARY



          It would seem the music has started back up again officially as VoEx for
          $SPY and $QQQ have re-entered stability. VoEx-daily is a bit rough with its
          recent peaks, which supports the idea of a moderate pull-back given the
          recent surge in price. However, should it occur, it is expected to be minor
          given VoEx’s current state.

          The Hedging environments are in a vanna-stable orientation with
          reasonable purchasing support throughout. Concern exists here in the
          event of excessive IV- which would work to bring in some selling pressure.
          Nonetheless, the Influence Distributions suggest bullish week ahead,
          despite the southern selling pressure.

          No real developments in the put-selling or gamma-lands; both offer
          minimal outlooks for the time ahead.

          Overall, expectation is back to BUPO (Bullish-until-proven-otherwise)!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      09/23/2024
                                                    DETAILS




Hello everyone!1
Last week, there were some whispers for an potentially-ever-growing bull-trap which led to a net-
bullish outlook.
Thus far, the market delivered with $SPY moving 1.11%, while $QQQ moved 1.49%. These values
are less exciting than last week, and well-housed within the EPR2, so no need for any extra math
this week!
Additionally, there was some fretting last week over the orientation of the gamma hedging
environment; namely because of the Vanna-stable orientation, which necessitated some hand-
waving about Eddie currents.
We can see the result of the week against the expectations below:




If you tilt your head and squint some you can see that it sort-of played out. The idea was moreso
that the market would float up, then down, then up – instead we went flatish, up, then down.
Can’t win them all.
So, without further ado, let’s get started and then end with some rambling about upgrades.




1
    Especially you!
2
    $SPY’s T+5 EPR from last week was ± 1.53% (0.72x) while $QQQ’s was ±2.20% (0.67x).


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           09/23/2024
In which there is no rambling:
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see a refreshingly simple interpretation of market stability:




We now live in an environment were VoEx and VoEx-daily are within Stability!
This means BUPO (Bullish-Until-Proven-Otherwise) time!

Admittedly, one can see that VoEx-daily is a bit rough, and, given the recent surge in price-action,
if one really wanted to push against a bullish-outlook in lieu of a near-term, modestly bearish
outlook due to a high-risk of pull-back; I don’t think anyone could fault that outlook3.
Thus, with a tentatively bullish view, how would the gamma environments handle this?


3
  Essentially, VoEx-daily currently looks similar to local VoEx-daily tops, which suggest a near-term dip. But, this is
mostly hand-waving interpretation as the text-book says: bullish-until-proven-otherwise! But I wouldn’t blame you
if you also showed us the SNAP graphs for $SPY! Which do suggest a bearish Monday! This can be visualized below
as the SNAP graphs show modestly-increasing positive outlooks as we expand out time-horizon from the 1-Day (far
right) to the 20-day (1 trading month; far left).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                          09/23/2024
It would seem very well!
The markets seem to be sitting on some reasonable purchasing support, and the influence
distributions are suggesting a bullish lean for the week ahead.
Selling pressure is pretty far-off (well, reasonably-off for $QQQ) such that the closest route to
would be via a [$-, IV-no-change]-market, which would be an arrangement, but worth keeping an
eye out for if IV starts to stall.
Perhaps IV dropping too aggressively at the start of the week may endanger a wholly-supportive
environment but overall, the skies seem clear!
So, if VoEx looks primed, and the hedging environments are poised to offer persistent purchasing
support, are our put-selling friends at all convinced?




Nope!
Not at all, and why would they – they’re probably cooler than you us. They know things. Secret
things, I’m sure.
So, perhaps we can keep that in mind, but for now, it looks like they are missing out.
Moving right on to the Gamma world, we see: not much!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           09/23/2024
                                                               Gamma        squeezes     have
                                                               decreased 26% to recent lows of
                                                               769 over the past 10-(trading)-
                                                               days, and -10% over the past
                                                               trading-week.




                                                               Even GTM is nonplussed at the
                                                               recent activities and finds neutral
                                                               gamma flowing towards the
                                                               market.




Gamma-land looks clear!
So, all-in-all, the music seems to be playing so loudly we’ve almost forgotten about our several-
month-long hand-wringing about medium-term downside.
To that affect, it looks like it’s time to dance!


Happy Trading,



Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       09/23/2024
In which there is (some) ranting:
No, you’re ranting.
In any case, I figured I’d give a quick update as to the progress of, well, the updates!
Most of the back-end has been re-written and established in Rust (whoo) and the databases are
getting populated and set up now (whoo). So far, the benefit is very noticeable speed-wise!

The next month-or-so will be tying the back-end together and then probably a few “test-runs” to
see how things work. If things continue to look how they are looking now, it shouldn’t be
unreasonable that the new Dashboard will have the data up much sooner than currently!
I am re-designing the UI of the dashboard from the ground up – I know that there has been some
discussion about making the app more mobile-friendly, but right now I am focusing moreso on
creating a powerful “Bloomberg Terminal”-esque style dashboard, so mobile support isn’t quite a
priority but I will be keeping it in mind. If you have any specific ideas or suggestions please let me
know!

I bring that up because, ya – the new dashboard is shaping up to be pretty nifty! Essentially, the
data page is such that you press a button “Add Data” and then you select which data you want to
see for instance, “Show me a Table of Price-Action overview between $SPY and $QQQ”. From
there, the dashboard will populate a table with various metrics to show you things like average
daily price changes, comparison metrics, various X-week averages, various data values and their
respective comparisons, etc.
Or you can say things like “Show me a Graph of GTM for these Stocks $Stock_1, $Stock_2, …” and
it will, hopefully, populate a graph showing you GTM with just those stocks included! Stuff like
that.

So that will populate into a little window, and then supposing you want even more data you can
hit the button again and repeat the process! Ideally, you will be able to save various
“configurations” so that they are easy to swap through.
Additionally, along with the watchlist and the market scan, there will be an ability to set custom
alerts, like “Alert me when $X is above LDPM-89 AND LDPS Bullish for Y days” or stuff like that,
whatever it is that you kids are doing now-a-days.
But ya! Stuff is happening, I suppose. Hopefully in about a month things will be up and moving
enough to put on a little demo – fingers crossed!


Until then,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                             09/23/2024
