                                  Weekly Chat 08/28/2023


                                         Main Points


    -   VoEx-daily persists within the Propagation Zone while VoEx-Trend for $SPY and $QQQ
        are pointed northward.
    -   Hedging heatmaps demonstrate continued expectation for the introduction of
        purchasing support in the $-/IV+ quadrant.
    -   DLPs have re-opened with force from our DLP-friends.
    -   MWGS-data is predominantly bullish.
    -   Most criteria for reversal have been met.
    -   Tentative bullish outlook with expectations of the dip having dipped.



                                          SUMMARY



          Last week, there were several data points that suggested continued
          bearish performance with the small caveat that should there be greenage
          throughout the market-land, it would be expected to be short-lived unless
          several criteria were met.

          These criteria, by-and-large, have been met: negative GTM values, DLP
          resurgence, and no drastic VoEx responses have all accompanied this
          week’s net-positive moves in reinforcement of the idea that the bottom
          has been reached.

          An outlook not without controversy, however, is VoEx-daily’s persistence
          within the Propagation Zone – a position which is gingerly balanced
          against VoEx-trends more positive outlooks.

          The hedging environments offer similar support as in the past few weeks
          but with the added observation that last week, the purchasing support was
          sufficient to absorb any remaining eager ask – but it would seem that that
          bullish support withered quickly without the price insensitive bid.

          Overall, these data support a tentatively bullish outlook with the idea that
          there is little evidence of more contagious downside a head by way of 𝑉𝑉 2.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       08/28/2023
                                              DETAILS




Well – what a week!
We left off last week with predominate and persistent bearish leanings due to VoEx’s location,
MWGS data, and some other stuff.
As the week progressed, $SPY saw upwards mobility from Friday’s close to heights of +1.99%
($455.22 reached on 08/24/23), and staggering lows of -0.34% ($435.00 low on 08/25/23), with
a net resulting move of 0.79% for the week.

$QQQ in similar, but exaggerated fashion, saw heights of +4.08% ($372.74 on 08/24/23) and lows
of 0.12% ($358.58 on 08/25/23) with a net move of 1.64% for the week!
All-in-all, not a very bearish week and one that can’t readily be described as “standard” or “normal”
or even “stable”. Besides VoEx giving us this impression, we can glimpse this erratic outlook via
the price behavior on $QQQ.

Last Friday (08/18/2023), $QQQ had a 5-day EPR of ±2.24%, which was exceeded nicely with its
4% move on Thursday; a 2x EPR move which resulted in a 3.79% drop down to the week’s low on
Friday of $358.58! Not the most stable of times, for sure.
The greenage for the week wasn’t entirely unexpected, as there were several nods to the idea that
things might bounce.
The first was acknowledgement of LDPM-89’s particularly fortified defenses:


           “
Additionally, it may be
 particularly insightful
    this week as both
  $SPY and $QQQ are
 finally testing LDPM-
      89 on the daily
($SPY’s LDPM-89 is at
 ~$433 [current price:
 $436.50] and $QQQ’s
   is at $353 [current
     price: $358.13].
           “


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          08/28/2023
On the daily timeframe with $SPY we can see this bouncey-bounce played out quite nicely.

In preparation for a potentially green week, there were some signals indicated that would help
identify if the bounce would be a bounce or the start of the recovery. These signals were:

                                                 “
       -   Persistent non-gamma squeeze status on $SPY and $QQQ
       -   Drastic reduction in MWGS-counts,
       -   Negative GTM,
       -   DLP resurgence,
       -   No drastic VoEx responses (such as spiking back into the Inhibition Zone).
                                                 “
This means that this week, all that needs to be done is to check the data for these criteria, weigh
their relative presence (or absence), and work on the question: is the dip dipped or shall we
continue?

Let’s get started!
Last Week’s Moves
As usual, let’s quickly get a glimpse at last week’s moves via the hedging heatmaps:




You’ll remember from last week, it was noted that “…The goal for the next few weeks will be to
monitor the hedging environments for signs of a diminishing eager ask as well as an increase in
eager bid.” , and it would seem the evidence for an ever-growing eager-bid and/or ever-diminishing
eager-ask is present.
Unlike the past two weeks, the purchasing support provided by the hedging environments seems
to have been robust and effective! Perhaps there is evidence that an eager bid is entering the
scene.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         08/28/2023
[Extra handwaving edition:
One might well notice that $SPY’s and $QQQ’s price sort of “ping-ponged” back and forth this
week. In particular, note how on the 23rd, $SPY
rose an appreciable 1.11% (37% greater than its
1-day EPR) placing $SPY in close proximity to
selling pressure both per Friday’s Heatmap and
the 23rd’s (right).
This introduction of selling pressure (and/or
loss of purchasing support – depending on
your persuasion) was then met with a -1.39%
day (exceeding its 1-day EPR by 65%).

The difficulty is deciding if this is “standard”
mean reversion, or an ominous sign that the
eager bid present is still rather weak. That is,
without the additional benefit of the price-insensitive bid (from hedging) meeting the ask with the
eager bid, as small as it may be currently, there is insufficient bid to continue any upwards
trajectory.

With the price insensitive bid present in the market, the price moves upwards - but instead, replace
that price insensitive bid with some light selling pressure (price insensitive ask), it would seem
the price the price insensitive ask chews threw any eager bid present and quickly drops down to
the organic bid, resulting in mean-reversion and a slightly uneasy feeling towards any developing
idea that there is sufficient eager bid present.
Signs of weakness in the bid or signs of weakness from the ask?
Decisions!
].




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         08/28/2023
Today’s Data for Tomorrow’s Future

Before the excitement that bullish performance is expected (as might be gleaned from just LDPM-
89’s and the purchasing support’s robustness), it is worth mentioning that VoEx has still taken-
up-shop in the Propagation Zone for both $SPY and $QQQ:




One would be remiss, however, to not notice VoEx-trend starting its ascent upwards1. A tricky
situation: one in which the current data are planting VoEx squarely within the Propagation Zone
(and thus, bring with it continued bearish outlooks) but one in which the very same data2 is
anticipating movement out of the Propagation Zone (via VoEx-Trend/’s northward persuasion).
A classic now-versus-the-future battle of data.

Let’s quickly look at some of the other data to help us pick a side.



1
  If one wanted to really rock the boat, they might suggest that VoEx on $QQQ is reminiscent of VoEx Coiling. But
you didn’t hear it from me.
2
  Terms and some conditions apply.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                       08/28/2023
First up, are the hedging environments for $SPY and $QQQ:




                                                                 On $SPY (left) we see robust purchasing
                                                                 support, and a stark bullish outlook per
                                                                 the Influence Distributions (albeit with
                                                                 still an annoying left tail). All-around a
                                                                 familiar sight.




On $QQQ (right), we see the
same but with a distinctly
stable-vanna-squeeze
orientation3. The data also
suggest a bullish Influence
Distribution accompanied by
an even-more aggressive left-
tail (as compared to $SPY’s).




With the robust response to
the market’s purchasing support last week, it seems more reasonable than in the prior several
weeks to anticipate continued efficacy of said purchasing support.

Moving towards the outlook of our friends-with-money, a feeling emerges akin to how I imagine
a parent feels seeing their child hit their first home run in little-league:




3
  The vanna-squeeze interpretation comes from the fact that whether or not purchasing support (blue) or selling
pressure (red) is introduced to the market is determined mainly by IV, not by the price! It is considered stable
because purchasing support is to the right (IV+) and selling pressure to the left (IV-). See Weekly Chat 2023-08-14
for examples.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                      08/28/2023
Now, that is some hefty put selling! For those watching at home, it might be worthwhile to review
the 2023-08-14’s extended view of DLP behavior for $SPY :




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      08/28/2023
                                                              This view (left) was crafted due to
                                                              the idea that our DLP-friends’
                                                              behavior lately had been rather
                                                              moot :
                                                                                “
                                                               Yet – lately there has been moot
                                                                   performance. The lack of
                                                                    confidence seems very
                                                                  pronounced – however it is
                                                               uncertain as to which aspect of
                                                              put-selling is dubious: is IV too low
                                                                      or is price too high?
                                                ”
Combining these two views into one gets us:




Quite not the moot behavior!

Its good to finally see our DLP friends back – and with such conviction (although its curious that
it seems there is some excess caution on $QQQ – I couldn’t imagine why!).
These data are quite the bullish endorsement.
Moving towards the MWGS-data, there are similar such bullish sentiments with the MWGS-
growth-trend and 5-day-growth-rate (top graph; black line and gold line, respectively) printing
negative values (thus indicating that the market is starting to remove gamma squeezes). These
data are associated with bullish performance.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        08/28/2023
GTM started the week with a reverse Uno card and printed a substantial positive print – and now
may be a good time to review these types of GTM prints. From the Footnote #11 on 2023-08-07’s
Weekly Chat:
                                                       “
The GTM Graphing algorithm takes the GTM values and if there are any greater than a certain threshold,
 it cuts it off and places a max value. This is just for graphing purposes and under-the-hood, these values
    are incredibly negative. However, the underlying math works like so: 𝑋𝑋𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖 − 𝑋𝑋𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 whereby if 𝑋𝑋𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖 → 0
     because of a gamma “flush”, then GTM simply becomes 0 − 𝑋𝑋𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 → some-large-negative-number.
                                                       “
Reversing said logic brings us to some-large-positive-number → 𝑋𝑋𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖 − 0 where 0 ≔ 𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝐺𝑎𝑎 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 →
all of the stocks leaving their gamma squeezes have left. In other words, it’s a reverse “gamma
flush”.
Now, admittedly, this is a bit convoluted. The main issue is that I didn’t anticipate, or see in the
data, these “flushes” (or perhaps, I just didn’t apply significance to the extreme values that GTM
can produce. For instance, the GTM values printed on the recent “flat-top” were 89! This is an
unintended hole in the view provided by GTM and it is currently under investigation.
So overall, in focusing in on the MWGS-growth data, it would appear there are predominately
bullish inclinations.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                    08/28/2023
Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat   08/28/2023
                                                ---
                                           Quick Aside
To continue on the GTM-visual-hole that has been discovered, I did do some re-arranging under
the hood in an attempt to over-come this. Admittedly, the GTM algorithm was a tad more
complicated than I remembered, but I have identified several areas that appear to be good
candidates to over-come this situation. The situation that is attempting to be over-come is:

   1) GTM’s undefined behavior should be, well, defined.
   2) GTM’s interpretation shouldn’t require mental gymnastics due to how potential “flows”
      might operate. Instead, the interpretation of GTM should be readily available on the
      surface.
In this vein, some re-configurations were done to eliminate these two hiccups. First, I’ll present a
quick analysis of the work, and then I’ll present the work.
The quick analysis is relatively straightforward: I reconfigured some of the raw GTM values and
converted them into 5-, 10-, and 20-day rolling averages, and mapped these values to the change
in the number of gamma squeezes going into the future 5-, 10-, and 20-days. The goal is to ensure
that the current (and new-ish) GTM values are still associated with future changes in gamma
squeeze counts. The results are here:




These data show a nice association still with an increase in GTM values corresponding with an
increase in future gamma squeeze counts. Although not an exhaustive analysis, it does supply
sufficient confidence to show case the augmented GTM graph:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         08/28/2023
The first thing to note is that there are indeed no undefined behaviors! That’s exciting. The other
demonstrates that the 60-day EMA (gold ribbon) is positive once-more, an association with future
gamma squeeze counts, along with the 5-, 10-, and 20-day GTM values. Some bearish prints from
this GTM version!
However, before we can put too much stock on these data, I will be investigating this version of
GTM a bit more in the weeks ahead.
To quickly review what these data indicate:

GTM here is telling us that when a comparison is made between the incoming gamma-squeeze-
  flow and the outgoing gamma-squeeze-flow, there is a greater amount of incoming gamma
                           squeezes than outgoing gamma squeezes.


Naturally, this interpretation suggests bearish outlooks a head – however this outlook should be
paired with a slight grain of salt as I think there is some more work to be done on the way the
algorithm calculates the “momentum” of the gamma flows.
Always improvements to be had!
                                                ---

So far, we’ve seen:


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        08/28/2023
   1) For $SPY and $QQQ, VoEx-daily is in the Propagation Zone while VoEx-trend pointing
      northward,
   2) DLP behavior is quite decisive and it would appear our DLP friends are quite happy making
      some bullish bets for the week ahead,
   3) GTM data is overall mixed with MWGS-growth and MWGS-growth-trend being negative
      while GTM is printing negative values – keeping in mind that GTM’s EMA is positive. Our
      experimental GTM data suggest growth is in the future.
And so, to move on, let’s see if 𝑉𝑉 2 offers us any solace or directional insights. Last week, 𝑉𝑉 2 had
titillated us with a singular datum within the Propagation Zone, and it would seem that this week
offered little company for our wayward friend:




With no new data within the Propagation Zone, and no apparent collapse in 𝑉𝑉 2 noted throughout
any of the 3 zones, it would appear that the anticipation that the current market dip was going to
be self-limiting is gaining evermore traction.
Last week, there were several criteria noted that would help gauge if a green week should herald
the incoming end of the dip or should simply be registered as a signal of instability. These criteria
can now be assessed:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            08/28/2023
Criteria                                                   Status


Persistent non-GS status on $SPY and $QQQ                                             No

Drastic reduction in MWGS-counts                                  Eh - 3.62% reduction over the past 5 days.

Negative GTM                                                                         Yes

DLP resurgence                                                                       Yes

No drastic VoEx Response                                                             Yes




    Thus, it would appear the majority of our criteria have been met. The result? A tentatively bullish
    outlook – this outlook will rest on:
           1) Bullish performance on $SPY and $QQQ (duh ) but like before, I would like to see VoEx
              either calmly move back into stability (to suggest a more medium-long-term bullish
              outlook) or eject itself back into the Inhibition Zone (to place us back in BUPO). The least-
              ideal is if it stubbornly hangs around the Propagation Line (see 03/2023).
           2) Continued decrease in MWGS counts along with $SPY and $QQQ exiting their gamma
              squeeze and maintaining a non-gamma squeeze state.
           3) DLP behavior continues to be robustly bullish.
           4) Hedging environments continue to be supportive with evidence of an eager bid being
              present and growing (i.e.: the market can withstand some selling pressure without tanking
              like it did this week).

    Overall, I think things have been going rather well so far.

              -   Since introduction to the Propagation Zone, $SPY has moved 3.61% towards the
                  downside, having bounced off of the LDPM-89 target discussed in 08/14/2023’s chat;
              -   𝑉𝑉 2 has kept us abreast to any changes that might signal a more significant downside;
              -   MWGS-counts and growth metrics have done a good job of showcasing anticipated
                  market moves (GTM has faltered a tad this cycle, admittedly);
    Thus, without any significant data prints to suggest extension of this downside is in order (with a
    slight side-eye to VoEx), I think it would be prudent to take a tentatively bullish stance – but since
    things aren’t completely bullish (looking at you, GTM and VoEx), a readily-available-pivot will be
    kept nearby.

    Happy trading!
    Justin




    Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                              08/28/2023
