                                      Weekly Chat 2025-11-24


                                              Main Points



       -   VoEx remains in the Propagation Zone for $SPY and $QQQ with some evidence of
           a forming VoEx-daily spike underway.
       -   Gamma-hedging environments showcase a tenuous but supportive environment
           for $SPY with a wholly supportive environment for $QQQ.
       -   The Market-Wide Gamma (MWGS) squeeze data showcase increasing counts
           (generally) with an increase in the predictive data as well.
       -   The LS&T liquidity investigation for ES showcases forming bull-traps on the 90-,
           and 144-minutes as the 987-minute LT-7 support facilitates a small bounce.
       -   Expectations are a small bounce followed by return to downside.

                                              SUMMARY


           Last week, the outlook was downside and the eventual outcome was downside
           as well. This week, the data suggest a small bounce might be underway but the
           data still show continued, overall expectations for downside.

           VoEx-daily for $SPY appears reminiscent of its recently-acquired VoEx-daily spike
           behavior, suggesting that a small $+ accompanying a VoEx-daily spike is in the
           works; this is not noted on $QQQ. Despite the potential for this pattern the overall
           data still show VoEx (and VoEx-daily) well within the Propagation Zone, and so
           downside represents the overall expectation and the ultimate anticipated
           resolution, small bounce or not.

           The gamma-hedging environments showcase purchasing support for both $SPY
           and $QQQ with $SPY showcasing the need to be judicious with any 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − in the
           week ahead, lest selling pressure be introduced into the market. $QQQ on the
           other-hand finds itself inundated with purchasing support as spot falls below the
           largest dealer-short put strike (which is now ITM).

           The market-wide gamma squeeze (MWGS) data shows an overall increase in GS
           counts (notwithstanding Friday’s decrease) along with an increase in the
           predictive data, which forecasts a future containing a greater amount of gamma
           squeezes than currently present.

           LS&T investigation showcases near-term (90-, and 144-minute) bulltraps with
           ceilings located ~2-3% up for ES futures. This corresponds to the 987-minute
           which showcases LT7 acting as a robust support, provoking a bit of a bounce in
           spot.

           Overall, the data look prepared to off a week of bounce then downside to follow.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                   2025-11-24 to 2025-11-28
                                                       DETAILS




Hello all!
We are back! Last week, we left off with notions of downside to be followed by more downside.
Armed with such anticipations, the market found itself with like mind and ended -1.92% down for
$SPY and -3.00% down for $QQQ.
We can visualize these moves with the hedging heatmaps below:




Last week, we talked about how the market might see more influential purchasing support with
minimal influence from non-hedging personnes, but if we look at $SPY’s 5-day running average
for volume on the dashboard, we see this is not what happened at all!




In fact, we see a 50% increase in average volume from Friday the 14th until Friday the 21st! This
hints at something particular important: 1) I was correct in the assumption1 and 2) the hedging
most likely did enter the market and had minimal impact!
So whereas the hedging was supportive it was too minimal in its impact in comparison to the 50%
increase in volume ! Something to keep in mind, perhaps, as next week approaches.


1
    The logisticians arguing 𝑎𝑎 ← 𝑏𝑏 ≠ 𝑎𝑎 ← ¬𝑏𝑏 can go read a different Weekly Chat.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                     for the week of                     2025-11-24 to 2025-11-28
Speaking of next week, let’s check out the data:

The data
Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




Deepening of VoEx-daily and VoEx into the Propagation Zone! This foretells continued downside
expectations with expanded scope. Some, more eager pattern-matchers, might argue that the
recent behavior of VoEx-daily moving down, spiking up during a small $+ , and then falling back
down (i.e.: VoEx-daily spikes) of late might constitute a pattern, and, should said pattern be
reconstituted, one might become suspicious of the start of another cycle. To said pattern-seeker,
I say: maybe!
If we take the data on face-value, things are worsening and downside is still the predominate
expectations. If we take the data with regard to any potential patterns that might be forming, we
arrive at a similar conclusion (that of downside) but one that is augmented slightly with the
possibility for an incoming VoEx-daily spike and $+ -bounce.
Let’s check on the heatmaps to see what might be most facilitated by the gamma-hedgers:




Oh my!
On $SPY, we find a gamma-squeeze orientation (since the majority of purchasing support is $+
while selling pressure is $− with current [$, 𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼] pairings on the ridge separating the boys
(purchasing support) from the men (selling pressure). This creates another scenario whereby any



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-11-24 to 2025-11-28
combination of $− and/or 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − will be met with selling pressure! This gives the market a thin line
to walk if it wishes to appreciate in price – it must do so without significant reduction in IV,
otherwise selling pressure will be introduced.
The good news is that this gives a bit of a controlled environment for $− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + to occur, since both
of those potentials will result in an increase in purchasing support.
On $QQQ, however, such divisions do not exist: the sea is filled with purchasing support in all
directions. A testament $QQQ’s spot having dropped below the largest (then-) OTM put strike:




In spot-up, we have the (now) large bank of ITM dealer-short puts which are prone to cause
gamma squeezes (since they are short-gamma) while on spot-down we have a bed of OTM
dealer-short puts as well causing the exact same phenomenon if spot decreases. The net effect
of both of these combined in a sea of purchasing support!
It is worth noting that large sums of ITM dealer-short puts is not ideal and can often cause
volatility issues (namely via vanna-squeezes). These are similar to the gamma counter-parts
except instead of an ipsilateral price-hedging relationship its an ipsilateral IV-hedging
relationship: as IV increases, more selling pressure occurs while when IV-decreases, sell selling
pressure occurs. Currently, it seems IV is too low for this in general but we can see the starts of
the vanna-squeeze poking out on the $QQQ heatmap in the upper-left corner! At extreme IV
increase we can see vanna starting to poke through the gamma with a single light-red square!
Overall, it seems the markets are poised to receive a healthy amount of purchasing support from
the gamma-hedgers, and it seems their goal is going to be navigating a $+ environment without
causing 𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼 to decrease too substantially.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2025-11-24 to 2025-11-28
Thus, to contextualize the VoEx and heatmap data: it seems that the pattern-watchers have some
hope in the near-future for a small bounce as VoEx-daily looks ready to continue in its pattern of
behavior while the hedging heatmaps are poised to offer purchasing support (for the most part).
This suggests that keeping an eye out for a pre-week/-market $− move which might interrupt the
delicate balance the S&P is currently navigating.
Moving on, let’s check on the Market-Wide Gamma squeeze data:




Curiously, although this week was slated for an increase in GS counts, it would appear that Friday
interrupted this trend with a 34% reduction in GS counts, which brings the weekly %-change to -
22% as opposed to 34%
increase up until Thursday.
In moving to the predictive data,
we find that things are largely
the same: the Predictive Count
Curve    (PCC;     orange)     is
continuing to rise, indicating
that future GS count is
expected to grow faster than it
currently is. The Predictive
Growth Curve (PGC; purple) has
moved to ~0, indicating that the
overall growth-rate will stay the



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-11-24 to 2025-11-28
same (the acceleration is 0 of the growth rate).

In other words, the gas-pedal-of-expectation isn’t being pressed anymore but neither are the
breaks and we are traveling faster than we were last week! This paints a picture of a market with
more gamma squeezes then currently present which begets a picture of increased instability
throughout the market which itself also begets pictures of downside.
In peeking at the LS&T data, we find:




Evidence of a forming bounce indeed!
The evidence is as follows:

       -   Bullish liquidity has emerged on the 90-mintue [top-left] within a bulltrap environment
           (LTs are in a Bear Stack while LS is bullish!) This places a tentative ceiling at LT6
           ($6,713; ~1.2%) and LT7 ($6,778; 2.2%).
       -   The 144-minute [top-right] is in similar effect: bullish liquidity has emerged with a
           budding bull-trap underway. These ceilings are $6,678 (~2.5%ish) and $6,856 (~3.4%).
       -   The 987-minute [bottom-left] isn’t presenting with bullish liquidity but LT7 at $6,588
           tends to be a hefty support, and it seems to be supporting spot well currently, and in
           addition to LT7’s support, we find LT1 starting the `scoop` indicating that dip-buyers
           are starting to be observed moving in.
       -   This is in conjunction with the still-bullish liquidity on the 1-Week [bottom-right] that
           we find clinging onto LT5 as a stalactite.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of                2025-11-24 to 2025-11-28
In sum, these data do also paint a picture of unstable upside, one that is likely best monitored and
observed via the 987-minute as spot is likely to bounce off of LT7 before re-attempting another
breakthrough (supposing liquidity remains bearish).
It seems the plan for the week is a slight bounce which is set to dissolve once and if IV decreases
too much. Keeping tabs on the bulltraps noted on the 90-, 144-minute liquidity chart will likely
prove useful in the days ahead.

Overall, prudency suggests a slight breather might in the works but its longevity is in question
postwhich downside is likely to continue, especially if the LT7 support on the 987-minute fails.
Happy Trading!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-11-24 to 2025-11-28
