                                   Weekly Chat 12/11/2023


                                         Main Points


   -   VoEx remains as a proponent for Bullish-until-Proven-otherwise as it resumes its
       northward trajectory on $SPY and $QQQ.
   -   Hedging Environments remain in a vanna-unstable orientation.
   -   Put-selling on $QQQ has experienced a surge in activity with a >100% 5-day print.
   -   MWGS data shows continued gamma squeeze reduction and a bullish GTM print.
   -   Overall, BUPO until proven otherwise continues.



                                          SUMMARY



           So far, BUPO has reigned supreme and there is little evidence by-way of
           VoEx to suggest the end of BUPO.

           In relative support of this view, the hedging environments offer little
           resistance to a $+/IV- week, even providing a gamma neutral pathway
           extending $+/IV-. However, these very same hedging environments only
           offer selling pressure in the event of a $-/IV+ week.

           Put-selling has ramped up significantly on $QQQ for the week ahead.
           This outlook is not shared (yet?) with the $SPY folk.

           The Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data show continued decline in the
           number of gamma squeezes market-wide, and both versions of GTM are
           showing long gamma flowing towards the market.

           Overall, there is little evidence to replace BUPO with BUPO.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       12/11/2023
                                                      DETAILS




Hello gang!
Last week, we left off with the notion of BUPO but with a side-threat of a forming BUPO.
As luck would have it, $SPY moved an abundant 0.24% Week-over-Week, while $QQQ managed
a 0.57% W-o-W move; w-o-w indeed.
With such little market-movements, our goal this week is simple: investigate if BUPO is still the
safe bet, or are some of the more bearish data prints (the one’s observed last week) growing in
strength, and thus, indicating a switch to BUPO?
Pretty straight forward! Let’s get started.

OPUB
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see that both $SPY and $QQQ’s VoExes have bounced back into
the Inhibition Zone, rather than continuing with migration into the Propagation Zone 1. We can
see their youthful gaïety below:




Although predominantly seen as behavior that is, well, a bit unstable, surly we can’t begrudge
some gleeful merry-making in the merry holiday seasons – I suppose . But, one must wonder:
Does this merry merry-making interrupt the trajectory that we had outlined to spell the end of
BUPO (of the Bullish variety)? Yes.
Does this merry merry-making disrupt the short positions that I – er – we opened after seeing
VoEx nose-dive towards the Inhibition Line? Why, Yes. Yes, it does.
Does this merry merry-making once again serve as a reminder of Weekly Chat 2023-12-04 Page
3§4-10? Yes, and apparently not soon enough.


1
    This is one of the key findings for the end of BUPO! VoEx Spikes and VoEx Divergence.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                              12/11/2023
But what this merry merry-making doesn’t frustrate us with is a difficult interpretation: BUPO is
BUPO (of the Bullish variety). Until a VoEx Spike or VoEx moves out of the I.Z., there’s nothing
left to interpret.
Moving on from the jubilee of gay merry-making and towards something that’s not that, we
encounter the Hedging Environments (below).




Bleak and destitute – which, not only was it my nickname in high school, is also the general
state in which we find $SPY and $QQQ’s hedging environments.
A vanna-unstable orientation with local selling pressure – a sight that is becoming more
common in recent times!
Speaking of which! Here’s two quick interesting observations about $QQQ’s landscape.
The first is below. Check out $QQQ’s Heatmap from earlier this week, say around, 2023-12-06 if I
had to guess (below). Not too shabby! A vanna-stable orientation with local purchasing support.
How nifty!




                                           Now, let’s check out $QQQ’s heatmap from 2023-12-
                                           07 (below):




Quite the difference! Despite both being a vanna
orientation, we see that on 2023-12-07, the
orientation switched from stable to unstable!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      12/11/2023
What could have caused this? Perhaps it was the (checks notes) 1,000%+ increase in OTM
DLPs! (below)




That’s a lot of puts! Its also worth noting that this introduction of the OTM DLPs disrupted
things sufficiently to cause the end-of-week VoEx bounce back into the Inhibition Zone!
Furthermore, and onwards to observation #2, we can even see more consequences of these
dealer long puts in the heatmap, if you know what to look for.

                                              – Review Time! –
To see the obscure data in the heatmap, three key pieces of information are needed. See if you
can answer these questions below:

    Dealer OTM Long puts will supply ________ (long or short) gamma.2

    Dealer OTM Long puts will supply ________ (long or short) delta.3
    Gamma’s magnitude increases as an option moves more ________ (ITM / OTM). 4

    Vanna will cause ITM delta to ________ (grow or shrink) if IV increases. 5
Got it? Nice.

Now that we have the pieces, let’s quickly review how they interact:
If I purchase a put, and obtain short (negative) delta, while simultaneously wanting to be delta
neutral, I would neutralize this short delta with long (positive) delta. I would obtain this long
delta by purchasing shares from the market.
The delta-neutrality that is obtained from purchasing the shares, however, does not last forever.
If the price of the asset starts to increase, and the long puts become further out of the money,
the short delta decrease in magnitude6.

2
  Hint: Greek Cheat Sheet : Gamma
3
  Hint: Tier I – Introduction to DDS, pg10.
4
  Hint: Greek Cheat Sheet : Gamma
5
  Hint: Greek Cheat Sheet : Vanna
6
  Quick clarification what of “decrease in magnitude” means: both delta A that is moving from 1.0 → 0.5, and delta
B that is moving from −1.0 → −0.5 are moving closer to 0, and as such, are decreasing in magnitude.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                     12/11/2023
Since the delta is moving from a more-negative number to a less-negative number (in math for
you nerds: 𝛿𝛿 → 0−), this means there is less short delta that needs to be hedged. Since there is
less short delta that needs to be hedged, there is less long delta needed to neutralize the long
puts. Thus, shares are sold back to the market.
In essence, this means that as the price rises, we can expect selling, and as the price falls, we
can expect purchasing (when only really considering the delta of a single position).

This bring us to our first cool observation!
This delta-dynamic can be glimpsed on the Gamma Hedging Heatmaps, even with the vanna-
orientation “obscuring” things. Notice that if we keep IV the same, and just move up and down
the Y-axis (indicated by arrows; below), the price decline moves $QQQ out of selling pressure
and towards gamma neutrality (indicating a “balance” of forces), whereas the price increasing
only introduces continued selling pressure7.




“Nifty!”, I imagine you might be saying right now8. And indeed, I also think its nifty. Another
curious artifact of these new OTM DLPs can be seen, but this time a vanna and gamma
relationship.
To peek this interaction, a quick reminder about the antagonistic relationship between gamma
and vanna might be warranted: gamma and vanna are antagonistic.
Both gamma and vanna affect delta. Gamma controls how quickly delta changes, and vanna
controls both how much and in which direction delta changes. Gamma is sensitive to the
change in price of the underlying equity, and vanna is sensitive to changes in IV.

7
  I used the heatmap from the PDF versus the Dashboard because its lower resolution at times can help delineate
some boundaries better than the Dashboards.
8
  If you’re not, please do. I protest to being incorrect.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                   12/11/2023
Gamma is traditionally much more significant in terms of its magnitude and influence on delta.
Under certain orientations and circumstances, vanna can start “overtaking” gamma. This is
what we see when a Hedging Environment is in the “vanna orientation”, as it were.

So, consider a situation wherein dealer long OTM puts are opened in mass and provokes a
vanna-unstable orientation, similar to what’s seen in $QQQ’s heatmap.
As the equity’s price rises, this pushes the OTM puts further OTM cause the long gamma from
these newly-acquired dealer long puts to expand. As this expansion occurs, eventually gamma
will “regain control” of delta, minimizing the effects of vanna.
What were vanna’s effects? Well – an OTM DLP will introduce purchasing as IV increases9!
What does that mean? Well, if we draw a jagged-broken-box thing around the selling pressure
blob in the upper-right-hand corner, a curious trend emerges! Let’s check it out (below):




“Neato!”, I imagine you might be saying right now.10 And indeed, I do think its neato. We can
peek an area of the hedging environment where the control-boundary between gamma and
vanna can be glimpsed11.
                                           – Review Time Over! –




9
  Since delta is negative, if hedging is done via purchasing, this means there was more short-delta that required
neutralization. This means that delta moved towards -1 (for the math nerds: 𝛿𝛿 → −1− )! In other words, delta’s
magnitude has increased as IV increased!
10
   Don’t make me request again.
11
   In nerd speak we can see the boundary-zone delineating relative hedging directionality such that net selling
pressure is removed in a 𝛾𝛾: 𝑣𝑣-dependent manner however with confounding influences, despite this reduction in
𝛾𝛾 −influence, the net hedging direction remains in the ask.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                    12/11/2023
Moving on from whatever that was, we can peek at our DLP friends to see if there’s been any
activity (below):




                                                                      In a long-awaited show-of-force,
                                                                      put-sellers on $QQQ seem to have
                                                                      returned to their former glory with
                                                                      a large increase in Dealer Long
                                                                      Puts12.
                                                                      $SPY, on the other hand, has
                                                                      experienced a slight increase in
                                                                      DLPs, but nothing to write home
                                                                      about really.
                                                                      Taken together, it would seem that
                                                                      there is reasonable confidence
                                                                      being shown via put-selling on
                                                                      $QQQ. This is typically a robust
                                                                      bullish indication.
                                                                      In the brief future, should similar
                                                                      behavior be observed on $SPY, I
                                                                      will consider it a full vote of
                                                                      confidence by our Financial
                                                                      Overlords.




So far, there seems little to refute the maintenance of BUPO in lieu13 of BUPO: only some brief
selling pressure to halt a price appreciation (and should IV fall, gamma neutrality!), and a robust
showing from our put-selling friends.
Let’s check the other data to ensure we aren’t missing anything important.




12
   We haven’t really talked much about DLPs, hedging, or gamma, lately, in particular how wonky vanna can make
things. Perhaps I’ll include in the next Weekly Chat.
13
   French for lieu.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                   12/11/2023
First up is the MWGS data. Last week, there was chatter about the growth-trend moving into
positive territory and GTM (of Both varieties) measuring short gamma headed towards the
market. This week, we see much the same, shown below:




                                                       Despite a week-over-week reduction
                                                       in gamma squeezes from 998 to 976
                                                       (-2.204409%), growth is still inching
                                                       northward for gamma squeeze
                                                       production.
                                                       GTM switched polarities some this
                                                       week, moving back southward
                                                       (bullish in the original GTM).
                                                       In the (admittedly more intuitive) new
                                                       GTM, a similar scene is seen: flow
                                                       reversal and net long delta flowing
                                                       now towards the market (GTM above
                                                       zero in the revised version is positive
                                                       gamma, i.e.: long gamma, not the
                                                       gamma squeeze kind). Shown
                                                       below.




With a quick surge of
long gamma, it would
seem that GTM is now –
actually, after consulting
with Weekly Chat 2023-
12-04 Page 3§4-10, I
have been advised not to
discuss where it looks
like GTM is headed.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   12/11/2023
So, in short, it doesn’t look like there is too much evidence to refute BUPO, and only a smidgen
of evidence hinting at the eminency of the end of BUPO.
So, until VoEx moves out of the Inhibition Zone (in dramatic fashion, hopefully), and gamma
squeeze growth ramps up, I’ll take our put-selling-friends’ lead and ride the BUPO wave.


Happy trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     12/11/2023
