                                      Weekly Chat 2026-02-16


                                              Main Points


       -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ are wholly bearish with both variants deepening their
           presence within the Propagation Zone.
       -   Gamma-hedging heatmaps showcase a local gamma-squeeze environment for
           both $SPY and $QQQ.
       -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data showcase persistent growth and continued
           expectations for an upcoming rapid expanded.
       -   LS & T data showcase bearish prints on all timeframes except the Weekly, with
           minimal downside support locatable.

                                              SUMMARY



           VoEx and VoEx-daily for $SPY and $QQQ are well within the
           Propagation Zone, suggestive of near-term and long-term bearish
           outlooks.

           Hedging environments showcase proximal ipsilateral hedging
           requirements which sum to a local gamma-squeeze. A silver lining
           exists with these options and their corresponding arrangements
           exists whereby if (for the most part) IV increases too drastically,
           hedging is liable to re-introduce some purchasing support (more
           liable on $SPY than $QQQ).

           Gamma-squeeze data showcase modest growth with the predictive data
           indicating a future filled with augmented growth rates and gamma-squeeze
           counts.

           LS&T data showcase bearish prints on all intervals except the weekly with
           minimal evidence of nearby supports. The only substantial support observable
           from this view is on the weekly interval – LT4 acting as the first stop-gap (-5%ish)
           while LT6 exists as a more robust, organic bid (-8%).

           Prudence suggests downside is most expected.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                  2026-02-16 to 2026-02-20
                                               DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we left off with bearish thoughts and outlooks, which the market politely indulged upon
for us to the tune of -1.28% (for $SPY) and -1.27% (for $QQQ). We can visualize the moves in the
heatmaps below:




Down-and-to-the-right – them most opportune direction for the market to move if the market was
interested in relying on purchasing support!
Now that downside has been around and amongst us, let’s take a peek at the data to find out just
how far the rabbit hole may go!
Liquidity, Liquidity everywhere but not a drop (for the bulls) to drink!

Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




Quite ominous prints! Both $SPY and $QQQ have VoExes that are falling deeper into the
Propagation Zone while VoEx-daily joins!
This foretells of near-term and long-term bearish performance.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2026-02-16 to 2026-02-20
Let’s check in on the gamma-hedging heatmaps to see if we have anything that might stall this
foreshadowing:




Quite different from usual ! For $SPY and $QQQ we find quasi-gamma-squeeze like-conditions
whereby (in the local environment) if spot moves up, purchasing support will be encountered
while if spot moves down, selling pressure will be introduced.
Additionally, there is some “protection” by way of [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + ] introducing purchasing support – at
least for $SPY:




We can see this is a nice little rescue-blanket for the market but it is more fluffy and readily
available for $SPY than it is for $QQQ.
Thus, for now, it seems the straits are dire since selling pressure is located immediately proximal.
Thus, it seems hedging is apt to accelerate any downside but in exchange, it is willing to provide
some re-assuring measures under the right combination of $ and 𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼.
Moving onwards, let’s check on the market-wide gamma squeeze data to see how the
~foundations~ are doing:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2026-02-16 to 2026-02-20
A modest increase over the week – only an 8% increase week-over-week but we can see the
growth curve is indeed positive and growing!
Turning to the predictive data, we find a similar showing:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of      2026-02-16 to 2026-02-20
Positive values that are positioned to increase! These data suggest that the future will see a larger
growth rate and bigger GS count than is present.
Bearish prints!
Since most prints so far are bearish, let’s check the LS&T data to ensure we aren’t seeing the
market through bear-tinted glasses, as well as try to identify some floors, should we need them.




Quite the picture!
On the 90-minute we see what-was a recent aggressive bid cascade that has been already
engulfed with what appears to be a developing aggressive ask cascade – this along with bearish
liquidity suggests that near-term stability is neigh-existent and downside is already underway.
The 144-minute is not any better: bearish liquidity and LT1 has failed in its support-role, placing
LT2 up to bat. With bearish liquidity this appears most likely!
The 987-minute is particularly concerning! No dip-buyers present and no organic bids to find at
this level! It would seem that after the past several LT7 support-meetings, spot has finally broken
through with full-bearish liquidity. This suggests downside as well !
Lastly, on the weekly, we find bullish liquidity yet but a likely incoming test of LT4 once more –
accompanied without an unreasonable expectation for spot to continue downwards to LT6 (-5%)
and if conditions are dire, down to even LT7 (-8.5%)!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2026-02-16 to 2026-02-20
In sum, it would appear that the market is looking quite grim and the cure is located somewhere
in the ground – leaving the market with little option but to drill down!
Happy Trading,
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of             2026-02-16 to 2026-02-20
