                                  Weekly Chat 02/05/2024


                                       Main Points


      -   VoEx has rebounded back into the Inhibition Zone. Bullish-until-proven-otherwise is
          maintained.
      -   Hedging environments are in a vanna-unstable orientation with local and proximal
          selling pressure.
      -   Put-selling has increased for the week ahead.
      -   GTM has defined expectations and has moved into more-positive territory.
      -   Overall, bullish inclinations.



                                         SUMMARY



          The week started out against our expectations but a surprise emergence
          of purchasing support in the middle of the week let the market recover,
          and thus, satisfy our expectations of a bullish week.

          These expectations are maintained with reasonable caution due to the
          extended duration of VoEx          within the Inhibition Zone.

          In spite of these concerns, DLP activity has increased on both $SPY
          (+10%) and $QQQ( +~80%), and GTM is printing resoundingly positive
          prints; these data suggest bullish expectations are most prudent.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     02/05/2024
                                           DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we stood on our prominent promontories over the Deep seas, begrudgingly
bemoaning the ever-abating bearishness, which finds itself precariously proximal but without
potent provocation to pirate away BUPO (of the Bullish variety) for BUPO (of the Bearish variety).
The hesitance in adopting BUPO (of the Bearish variety has been due to VoEx: without definitive
and decisive moves into the Propagation Zone (despite the two recent teases to the contrary),
BUPO just can’t be replaced by BUPO.
This week’s eventuality did seem far-off at the start of the week, as can be gleaned below:




The week progressed until the 31st, after which it didn’t anymore, but rather, experienced quite
the turn around. It’s worth noting that the bottom of the week was the 31st, which, perhaps
coincidentally, on both $SPY and $QQQ, represented the day-of-the-week in which both $SPY
and $QQQ saw the introduction of hefty purchasing support:




What luck!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       02/05/2024
At least for our BUPO (of the Bullish
variety).
On the right, we can see this
emergence of purchasing support
occurred as VoEx for $QQQ was
beginning its descent.
Interestingly, this is not the first time
such a series of events has unfolded!
Remember way-back-when in 2022-
01-08 when the exact same thing
happened? VoEx spiked towards the
P.Z., only to have the market discover
purchasing support, which moved
everything back up.

Pretty neato to see this happen again.
Frustrating. But neat.
But, before we digress too much
again, let’s get this week’s Weely Chat
started and see if there’s anything
new to gawk at.


Please commence gawking
Since moving towards the P.Z. and subsequent recovery, we can see that VoEx has moved
substantially northward into the Inhibition Zone.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                            02/05/2024
The same can be said for $QQQ:




Almost identical prints.
The good news is this maintains BUPO.
The bad news is that this BUPO seems to be experiencing ~monthly VoEx Spikes.
By bad news, I simply mean it complicates things (such that, I will have to watch VoEx more
than usual now) but the overall strategy is the same: BUPO (of the Bullish variety) until
otherwise.
Moving from VoEx to the Hedging Environments, we see things are much the same as before.




Local and proximal selling pressure, in a vanna-unstable orientation. Interestingly, gamma
neutrality for $QQQ, from its current location, is straight up, while $SPY’s is $+/IV-. The benefit
for $QQQ is that it will require much less movement to get to both gamma neutrality and
purchasing support -should $QQQ find either of those things useful.
In the event of a $-/IV+ week, once again there is only selling pressure to be found for our
friends. Speaking of friends, let’s see what our put-sellers friends are up to.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        02/05/2024
A modest jump in put-
selling for $QQQ.
This increase, especially
given some of the
anticipated      weekend
events, does seem to be
a rather robust showing
of bullish sentiment.
This      gives     bullish
inclinations for the week
ahead.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat   02/05/2024
Next up, let’s move over to the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data to see how those gamma
flows are doing.
You’ll remember from last week, there was some discussion about the GTM spike the was
investigated a few weeks ago. Something was said along the lines of:

                                                    “
GTM is still in the middle of its large positive spike – indicating that there is still a net flow of long-
  gamma towards the market. This spike, however, seems to be winding down, and with it, the
                          expectation of near-term downside draws closer.
                                                    “


The idea was that GTM would move back into negative territory, and which it, the prophecy of
GTM-Spike would be fulfilled.

So, naturally, in response, the market decided not to do that:




With a rebound back into positive territory (and a robust one at that), it would seem that our
anticipation of negative gamma flows rushing back into the market have been usurped. And
with it, our lofty goals of seeing a surge of short gamma.
This brings with it strong bullish outlooks as this increases the expectation of gamma-squeeze
destruction coming down the line.
These bullish GTM prints are found, paradoxically, in the setting of a growing gamma squeeze
count. The week-over-week change in the number of gamma squeezes was 7% (1,118 → 1,205).
Not a terrible increase, admittedly, but noteworthy given the recent positive GTM prints.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                              02/05/2024
This suggests we are in an environment of spontaneous gamma squeeze creation. Not outside
the realm of possibility, I suppose, but if we assume GTM is reasonable at measuring gamma
flows, and thus, it has been reasonably certain in its recent assessment of long gamma flows,
but we still witness a growth of gamma squeezes, then the gamma squeezes didn’t “flow” to the
market but rather, were created there!
Supposing this theory is reasonable, let’s look at the stocks that weren’t in a gamma squeeze
last Friday, and then the ones that were in one at the end of this past week, and grouped them
based on their respective sectors. In this way, we can see where these spontaneous gamma
squeezes are popping up, and maybe that might tell us something.
Below is a graph showing the change in Short Calls or Short Puts per stock per day for those
that experienced a spontaneous gamma-squeeze generation from within $SPY. The left are
Short Calls and the right are Short Puts (black line is 0).




The graph only shows the data for stocks that started the gamma squeeze for a day within the
week. This means that $AAPL, for instance, started its gamma squeeze on the 31st –
presumably because of its influx of Dealer Short Calls. It would appear that afterwards, $AAPL’s
gamma squeeze likely worsened due to the robust opening of short puts on Friday.
In general, it seems some gamma squeezes opened due to short calls in the first half of the
week but the majority of the “spontaneous” gamma squeezes (at least from $SPY), were due to
short puts being opened.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     02/05/2024
So, it would seem that there were a few lucky bets placed on the 31st (via retail long calls), which
pushed a good bit of stocks into a gamma squeeze, followed by a larger and more-sustained
increase in dealer short puts towards the second half of the week, which worked to push even
more stocks into a gamma squeeze.
Worth noting, that the opening of these short puts would have provided some reasonable
purchasing support to both $SPY and $QQQ (as most of these equities are shared between the
two) via the initial hedging.
In spite of this growth, as we saw above, long-gamma is the dominant flowing force toward the
market with GTM’s positive prints, and as such, we should expect some diminishment of GS’
population numbers here shortly.
The take-home? A quick glimpse into some “spontaneous” movements in the market suggest
the latter-half of the week was dominated by dealer short puts being opened.
A nod to the idea that although the market-at-large may be sustainable for put-selling (looking at
you $QQQ), but on the individual level, this bullish performance is putting enough short-puts into
the market to push things into a gamma squeeze.
The graph last page was $SPY’s contribution; below is $QQQ’s:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         02/05/2024
Taken together, this suggests there’s some positioning occurring due to short puts being
opened causing “spontaneous gamma squeezes”. However, are these data sufficient to
overturn the conviction of our put-selling friends?

I’ll leave that answer to the reader.
For me, however, it would appear that there is another round of BUPO (of the Bullish variety) a
head of us; an outlook that is likely to be maintained until VoEx makes a 2022-, or 2020-style
move into the P.Z.
Until then, a quick look occasionally towards the gamma squeezes, and DLPs to ensure nothing
crazy is happening, and if not, back to putting the nose in the books1.



Next week, we’ll talk some about some changes coming to LDPM.


Happy trading,


Justin




1
    A euphemism for “desperately pleading with the programming gods”.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     02/05/2024
