                                  Weekly Chat 2026-06-08


                                        Main Points



       -   VoEx-daily continues its downward trajectory, flirting with the bearish zone.
       -   Gamma hedging heatmaps showcase minimal leeway in IV prior to the introduction
           of selling pressure,
       -   LS&T showcases bearish liquidity devoid of support with aggressive asks and profit-
           takers.

                                         SUMMARY



           Overall, downside looks promising as VoEx-daily continues its
           downwards trajectory, the gamma-hedging heatmaps put a limit on
           how far IV can decrease prior to the introduction of selling pressure.

           Additionally, the predictive MWGS data showcase once more an
           expectation of future GS growth and count increases, a bearish
           finding.

           LS&T data showcase profound loss of support with bearish liquidity
           up to the 987-minute and the introduction of profit-takers on the
           weekly.

           Overall, downside looks imminent with a target around $7,200 on
           ES.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat         for the week of              2026-06-08 to 2026-06-12
                                              DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we had a bullish outlook that was shrouded in uncomfortableness – perhaps this was
well-founded with the market tanking in the latter half of the week. Unfortunately, this week’s
weekly chat will be short (the last of its kind, promise) so let’s get started with VoEx:




VoEx looks concerning - we talked briefly last week about if we can consider this to be VoEx-
divergence, and I think the universe is about to confirm or deny said claims. As VoEx-daily looks
to tease with the boundary of the Bearish zone, bearish outlooks become more prominent.
A saving grace of sorts is the gamma-hedging heatmaps:




We have local purchasing support but said purchasing support requires the market to increase
spot quite a bit relative to IV in order to avoid any introduction of selling pressure. So either the
week sees massive $+ with minimal IV- or any reasonable decrease in IV will result in the
headwinds picking up. This type of orientation typically leads to quite turbulent markets.
Next up the predictive gamma hedging data which shows an expectation of increased growth and
counts:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2026-06-08 to 2026-06-12
Per the models the future is to be filled with greater gamma squeeze counts and growth – not the
best of findings when confronted with potential bearish futures!
Next up, LS&T:




Concerning! We have a massive aggressive ask forming on the 987-minute, bearish liquidity
without supports on the 90-minute and 144-minute as well as the introduction of profit-takers on
the weekly.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of              2026-06-08 to 2026-06-12
Overall, this looks well staged for a drop and potential bounce, with the floor looking to be around
$7.2 (LT-6 on the 987-minute and LT-5 on the weekly), after which a bounce is liable but if that
bounce represents the return to normalcy will be left to be seen.
Overall, turbulence and downside expected.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2026-06-08 to 2026-06-12
