                                    Weekly Chat 5/13/2024


                                          Main Points


    -   VoEx has swiftly moved into the Inhibition Zone, bringing with it suspicions of a forming
        Bullish-until-proven-otherwise environment.
    -   Hedging heatmaps are conducive for $+ movements throughout the week.
    -   Put-selling has reduced noticeably on $SPY and $QQQ for the week a head.
    -   GTM Data are showing positive prints.
    -   Continued local bullish performance expected.

                                           SUMMARY



           The market continues to rise and VoEx has done so similarly with
           movement into the Inhibition Zone, marking a potential start to another
           round of BUPO (of the bullish variety). However, this movement is still
           considered “unstable” with its extreme movements.

           Hedging environments are conducive with supportive purchasing support
           located spot-up. Influence distributions for the week a head point towards
           bullish performance.

           Despite the recent up-tick in bullish data, the put sellers seem less
           convinced for the week a head with a noted reduction in put-selling
           behavior.

           GTM is printing positive values while the week experience no net gain or
           loss in gamma squeezes throughout the week.

           Overall, continued cautious bullish outlooks without full commitment to
           overtly bullish ideologies.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       05/13/2024
                                            DETAILS




Hello every-body!
Last week, we left off with continued bullish ideologies owing mainly to VoEx’s behavior, and a
conducive hedging heatmap.
With that in mind, the market was kind enough to deliver with $SPY moving 1.87% up and $QQQ
moving 1.51% up. Not too shabby!
Using the modified heatmaps (which, from now on, will just be “the heatmaps”), we can see the
progression of the week was aided nicely by the purchasing support it seems:




Nice lofty upwards movement, with a steady, casual, reduction in IV. Nice.

This nice movement, however, does bring with it some un-nice thoughts regarding the future,
mainly, the thought of what if this bounce not a bounce ?
So, let’s see if we can find out some more information about this recent price appreciation, and
then decide if the data still suggest this is a bounce – or – if things have stabilized enough to
continue northward.

Let’s get started!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      05/13/2024
Au début
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see
conditions have moved from the
Propagation Zone to the Inhibition
Zone with record speed.
This presentation brings with it
both bullish ideologies, and the
potential return of BUPO (of the
bullish variety).
In-and-of-itself, this development
is not distressing but it is
somewhat concerning that its already here before things got really spicy, as was the implicit
expectation with the more recent downturn in conditions.
Below, we find $QQQ in much the same position, with VoEx moving swiftly into the Inhibition
                                                       Zone.
                                                          Taken together, this rises reasonable
                                                          evidence that the dip may have, in
                                                          fact, dipped (for all intense and
                                                          purposes) for another round of BUPO
                                                          (of the bullish variety) seems to be
                                                          starting back up.
                                                          A bit of a wench in the overall plan but
                                                          at least there’s a heads up.
Let’s take a peek at neo-VoEx to see how things look there.




Much the same! Even, perhaps, more confident in its future bullish ideologies, as we see $QQQ’s
VoEx has almost entirely reversed course, and is now headed for a PZ-exit. $SPY’s VoEx is lagging
behind somewhat, but it seems both are tentatively ready to move back into stability.
Technically, for now, however, VoExes are still within the PZ, and so prudency still cautions for
resumption of downside.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       05/13/2024
Although the threat of downside remains, the prima facie interpretation is: overheating has
resumed, and with it, additional risk of upside. A full-out “bullish” interpretation will be saved for
when neo-VoEx is out of the Propagation Zone.

Thus, with continued bullish outlooks per VoEx, let’s see how the hedging environments would
respond:


                                                It would seem both $SPY (top) and $QQQ (bottom)
                                                are poised to offer continued purchasing support
                                                in almost all directions!
                                                This purchasing support does seem IV-dependent
                                                in that as IV increases, the support will start to
                                                retract.
                                                This doesn’t present as selling pressure for now
                                                but may be worth keeping in mind, should the
                                                markets start to move downwards somewhat.
                                                Both hedging environments present with an
                                                influence distribution that is predominately
                                                positive as well – another nod towards bullish
                                                performance.




With so much bullish music around, let’s take a peek at the put-sellers to see if they are dancing:




Nope! The opposite, in fact!
We normally poke-fun at the $SPY put-sellers, but you have to admit, they’ve been pretty good
reasonably well performant since about mid-April, which is about the same for $QQQ put-sellers
as well.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           05/13/2024
The current data suggests a reduction in put-selling is here – and this is typically associated with
a lack-of-confidence in a future $+ or IV- environment. This view is not too congruent with VoExes
interpretation above.

Moving from put-selling to Market-Wide Gamma Squeezes, the data are also starting to be overtly
bullish, in particular due to GTM’s positive prints:




Suggestive of long-gamma flows heading towards the market. This brings with it ideologies of
gamma-squeeze destruction; another bullish-nail in the coffin.

So, by-and-large, it would seem bullish sentiments are continuing but the skies seem to be
clearing – despite not as much rain having fallen as expected.
For now, a cautious step towards bullish sentiment, with bullish performance expected until
things stabilize into a more longer-term bullish outlook (at which time we can go back to “auto-
pilot mode”) or until this round of over-heating suddenly snaps.
Time will tell!


Happy trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         05/13/2024
