Weekly Chat 2025-05-26


                                          Main Points



    -   VoEx-daily has moved out of stability.
    -   Gamma-hedging heatmaps are relatively stable with local and persistent purchasing
        supported noted on $QQQ.
    -   Dealer-Long Put activity remains at zero.
    -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data show a spike in GS accompanied with a significant
        reduction in GTM.
    -   LDPM/S studies showcase near-term bearish liquidity with downside targets around
        3.5% for $ES.
    -   Prudency suggests bracing for downside.

                                          SUMMARY



          VoEx-daily has left stability yet remains north of the Propagation Zone, this
          brings with it tidings of downside. These tidings come with gamma
          hedging environments that are technically supportive, with sparse
          purchasing support for $SPY and $QQQ’s wall of p.

          The rest of the data, however, are not quite as cheery. The Market-Wide
          Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data showcase a 20% growth week-over-week
          in the market’s gamma squeezes, and GTM has taken a significant plunge
          into negative territory. These data paint a picture with more gamma
          squeezes than current, which in turn, is a future more bearish than present.

          LDPM and LDPS studies on $ES and $VX showcase near-term bearish (or
          bullish, in $VX’s case) and longer-term hints at the return to substantial
          and protracted liquidity.

          Taken together the data paint a bearish picture with hints of magnitude.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of               2025-05-26 to 2025-05-30
                                                  DETAILS




Hello every-body!
Last week, we left off with continued bearish notions, despite the apparent rally rallying around
us, and to the market’s benefit, it kept with our outlooks. The week saw $SPY move -2.53% while
$QQQ moved -2.45%; pretty decent downside moves! This means we should bust out the handy-
dandy EPR chart, and so let’s do that now:

 Symbol               T+5 Anticipated T + 5 Realized T + 5 Ratio T+5             %-
                      Move (±%)       Move (%)       (Real / Ant.) magnitude Dif.


 $SPY                   2.14                    2.53          1.18               1.67

 $QQQ                   2.57                    2.44          0.95               4.78



Never mind! The week’s EPRs and the realized price movements are well aligned. Thus, we can
move right along to the hedging heatmaps:




Above, we can see the market’s rapid descent into purchasing support (fueled by the hefty selling
pressure throughout) which helped, it seems, to level-off the downside for the latter-half of the
week.
Taken together, it seems our journeys onwards will likely not involve the spectre of ~mean
reversion~ due to the close adherence to the EPRs, but instead will mainly be focused on the
question we prepared last week for this week: is this downside the sign of a dip in an otherwise-
healthy environment or is this the start of a new leg-down.
A hefty task set forth, so let’s get started!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of          2025-05-26 to 2025-05-30
New Beginnings or old endings?
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see:




Last week, we sat around the campfire looking at VoEx-daily’s enstallment within Stability, and
thought that it might look as though a downwards spike might be starting. This week confirmed
this expectation in part – VoEx-daily has moved rapidly out of stability, which brings with it
unstable thoughts. The ideal outlook (convenience-wise for me, at least) would have been that it
falls through into the Propagation Zone (which would make the outlook that-much easier to form)
but it has instead entered the neutral area and paused.
This does elevate the risk of continued downside but doesn’t explicitly state “downside” just yet
– perhaps in the next day or two VoEx-daily re-enters the P.Z., then at least the near-term
downside outlook can be cemented, leaving only concern with the more longer-term views.
To this end, the longer-term view per VoEx is currently still bullish as it extends into stability.

The take-away here is that the apparently-forming downside is still a local downside, perhaps
worthy of “buy the dip” mentality but let’s check on the other data before we commit.
Starting then with other data, we find the gamma hedging heatmaps:




Much better than last week’s! $SPY’s environment has resumed a more stable and supportive
arrangement with local purchasing support. Gamma neutrality for $SPY seems most reachable



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2025-05-26 to 2025-05-30
in the direct [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +] route or the [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ]; mentally this works to ensure that the market will go
in neither of those directions.
$QQQ’s environment remains stubbornly unchanged but we see current conditions are local and
persistent purchasing support, as opposed to the selling pressure noted from last week. The lack
of gamma-neutrality obfuscates the ability to discern a reasonable, directed direction (or a
direction that the hedgers would like to wiggle towards [i.e.: gamma neutrality]).
Together these are relatively supportive environments to find the market in, so long as $SPY
doesn’t fall below its little ridge of purchasing support.
Next up, we have the Dealer-Long Putters, let’s see if they’ve joined the party yet:




Nope! Not at all. It appears it might still be too risky to intermediate long puts with zeal. This
suggests minimal expectation for [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] in the
weeks ahead.
How about the market-wide gamma squeeze data?
Oh boy! That’s some growth! Not a terrible amount
but we can see that over the past week, the GS count
has increased 21% Alongside this is a very
deepening GTM, which tells us that the flow of
gamma to the market just got “turned on” and is very
negative.
But as with everything, I am dissatisfied with GTM
still. We’ve recently done some modifications on it
but I still think its too insensitive to changes. I went
on a little spree to try to update the algorithm but
then I remembered (again) that honestly it’s a
strange one even for me but I think I was able to
make something a bit more performant! Let’s check
it out (in fact, I stole some technology from LDPM/S!
Don’t tell anyone!)


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                for the week of                  2025-05-26 to 2025-05-30
                                                            I’ll let you familiarize yourself with
                                                            the new GTM (the last page will have
                                                            a full-date GTM chart with $SPY as a
                                                            reference for you to review).
                                                            Thankfully the data aren’t too
                                                            deviant from before, just slightly
                                                            enhanced and so the outlook is
                                                            largely the same: there is a sudden
                                                            surge of short-gamma that has
                                                            started its journey towards the
                                                            market.
                                                            This gives us a bearish outlook for
                                                            our lives ahead as this insinuates
                                                            that gamma squeeze growth will
                                                            start ramping up soon, which itself
                                                            infers a bearish lifestyle.

Thus, it seems on the longer-term, the data (DLP and GTM) are once-again in modest
disagreement with VoEx, who sees fit to remain within stability for the time being. We shall see
who has the last laugh soon enough I believe!
Moving onwards, let’s check out the updated MWGS data as well!




These data showcase a continued declining Predictive Count Curve (orange; PCC), which gives
us continued expectations for GS count destruction, but to off-set this discordant opinion we see



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of              2025-05-26 to 2025-05-30
PGC (Predictive Growth Curve; purple line) is peeking its head up and is close to crossing the zero-
barrier!
This tells us that the breaks that were being applied to the GS growth is now nearing back to zero!
This suggests the counts are “coasting” in a way, and with the PCC pointed downwards, this
means they are costing ever-still towards GS count reduction. This gives a tenuously bullish
outlook, but perhaps we check on them in a few days as GTM’s prints start to manifest within the
market!
On the whole, from the data reviewed so far, things look relatively mixed still. On the near-term,
we have VoEx-daily moving out of stability, and minimal DLP activity which gives pause when
forming an inclination towards a bullish-bounce following last week’s downside. To counter-act
this pause, one might well look to longer-term timeframes in order to contextualize the more local
data. To this end, we see that the longer-term data are mixed as well. VoEx itself says that the
market’s recent performance was BUPO (bullish until proven otherwise) and has yet to signal the
“otherwise”, thus giving a wholly bullish outlook. This is counter-balanced against the DLP
behavior once more, as well as the MWGS data which show the potential start to a GS growth
spurt, which is known to bring the market’s down. In the middle of all this is $QQQ’s hedging
environment which is poised to offer purchasing support (briefly) and $SPY’s environment which
has purchasing support, but is nestled quite close to selling pressure and far away from gamma
neutrality.

Together this paints a picture of a fragmented market and thus one that is inherently inclined
towards downside, which I feel is a meta-data point but a worthwhile one nonetheless.
Thus, the outlook for the week ahead is likely downside to continue and the evidence that this
downside is not of the “buy the dip” kind, but rather the “downside is resuming” kind is mounting,
with only VoEx proper delaying the distinction.
With an overall lean towards downside, let’s check on LDPM/S for $ES and $VX to see if we can
identify some targets. First up we have $ES (note: LDPS has been reverted back to `Balanced`):




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2025-05-26 to 2025-05-30
Taken together these are some pretty bearish prints for both the longer and shorter time periods!
Starting at the top-left we find the 90-minute is showcasing pure bearish outlooks as LDPM-
L5(144) has worked to invert the LDPM stack before a “Bear trap” could even form. It appears on
the 144-minute (top-right) that a similar situation is unfolding, just slightly slower (things from
afar appear to move more slowly!) and we find a bear-trap that has failed the LDPM-L6(377)
support. This gives us a near-term expectation of testing LDPM-L7(610) at $5,600ish, which
currently sits ~-3.50% down.
On the more longer timeframes, we see the 987-minute is progressing along the “bearish” path,
as unless it bounces off of this upcoming LDPM-L6(377) test, we can see it is likely going to be
firmly en route to the “bearish” highlighted region, from which it will likely be very difficult to
reverse course!
Zooming out even more to the 1-Week view, we find a bear-trap that has gotten snagged in its
bounce on LDPM-L6 (again); without even a slight conversion to a more bullish LDPS outlook (say,
weak bearish as opposed to just bearish) this bodes poorly for another attempt at overcoming
LDPM-L6, and points the outloks back down towards a retest of LDPM-L7, at about $5,660.

Taken together, it seems the stage is set for a test of $5,660-$5,600ish! If that occurs by Friday,
we can indeed see that this will put us in the ~Bearish~ zone (as indicated by the green/blue dot):




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-05-26 to 2025-05-30
How nifty would that be! If that happens, we can at least relax a bit as the outlook will largely be
set.
But what about $VX? Let’s check it ou




Quite bearish for the market but bullish for VX! We see the shorter-term timeframes, such as on
the 90-minute, things are almost entirely bullish: LDPM-L5 has worked to maintain itself as a bid-
support line as it has crossed over LDPM-L6 and LDPM-L7, undermining the notion of “bulltrap”
in favor of pure “bullishness”.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2025-05-26 to 2025-05-30
On the 144-minute timeframe we see a mature bulltrap underway, having tested, stalled and now
surpassed LDPM-L6. This sets the next target at LDPM-L7, which is currently sitting about 20%
north of present spot.
The 987-minute timeframe shows a beartrap that found support along LDPM-L6; technically the
outlook is a retest of LDPM-L6 (since LDPS is keeping things red) but given the lower-order
timeframes, one might well be inclined to think this beartrap is soon to dissolve into a recovery.
If so, this paints another ceiling to test at $30.32, approximately 30% north of current spot.
On the 1-Week view, we see that things are still in a bulltrap, bullish and without a ceiling!
Overall, this paints a picture of a market that is poised for another leg down.
We started out chat today with the overall expectation that we would acquire near-term bearish
expectations from the data, and it seems this has held true: VoEx-daily has left stability, the MWGS
data showcase the early signs of a mounting GS problem, continued absence from the DLP folk,
and LDPM/S for $ES and $VX showcase some robust data prints for near-term downside.
The main question was if this downside would represent a “buy the dip” opportunity (which would
require that the market has indeed reversed) or if this was a market being bent and downside
should resume. The data, for now, appear to agree more with the latter.
And so, the outlook is downside on the near-term with elevated risk that we are to return to
substantial and protracted downside in the more far-out futures.
Happy trading,


Justin



P.S.: I’m going to be taking the Dashboard down for maintenance throughout the week in
preparation for the update. I will likely being doing this at around midnight – 3am EST but if you
find the server disconnecting constantly as you are looking about, let me know and I’ll take a
break!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2025-05-26 to 2025-05-30
