                                 Weekly Chat 2026-05-25


                                      Main Points



       -   VoEx is mixed but not in the Bearish zone throughout,
       -   Gamma-hedging heatmaps showcase diffuse selling pressure throughout with
           purchasing support located spot-down,
       -   Gamma-squeeze information show a cooling market with the predictive data
           showing an increase in GS destruction in the future,
       -   LS&T data are wholly bullish.

                                       SUMMARY



           Overall, we’ve been monitoring a market of mixed data and
           expectations but, barring some irregularly disregularities between
           $SPY and $QQQ, the data are wholly bullish!

           A short week seems primed for a run north -




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat       for the week of           2026-05-25 to 2026-05-29
                                              DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we had bearish inclinations, and the early part of the week satisfied those inklings, yet
the latter half of the week produced a nice bounce, as we can see with the hedging heatmaps
below:




That purchasing support came in to support quite nicely! With the short week ahead of us, let’s
celebrate with a short and concise weekly chat!

Weekly Chat Speed Run
Starting as usual with VoEx:




Speaking of VoEx, it has undergone some changes! Both algorithmically and aesthetically - the
short and the sweet of it is: VoEx was calmed down a bit, and the colors made a tad nicer and
cohesive.
On $SPY, we see VoEx’s ascension has halted just short of the bullish zone, while $QQQ has done
almost the exact same but with the Propagation / Bearish zone. What a twist!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2026-05-25 to 2026-05-29
The take-away for this, however, still seems to lean towards bullish, considering that, despite the
pauses and stalls, none of the VoExes are in the Propagation Zone! Thus, from VoEx, a tenuous
and possibly volatile bullish outlook is in order.
Next, up the heatmaps:




The same as last week but the selling pressure extends further down – this suggests the market
will have to absorb quite a bit of selling lest it
tests the bullish support once more. Let’s
take a look at the gamma squeeze to see if
conditions favor absorbing ask or testing
supports by way of a peek at the gamma
foundations:


A decrease! Another twist – but it seems the
overall growth rate is now negative, and rates
are dropping ! Is this reflected in the
predictive data?


                                                  A soothing of predictions! It looks like the
                                                   predictive growth curve is back to negative,
                                                   suggesting the future has more GS destruction
                                                   than this week, a bullish sign.

                                                       So overall, it seems that VoEx is mixed but
                                                   leaning bullish, hedging heatmaps are filled
                                                   with selling pressure and the overall market
                                                   gamma-foundations are cooling off – overall,
                                                    decently bullish!
                                                    Let’s check on the LS&T data:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2026-05-25 to 2026-05-29
Well!
We have an Aggressive Bid on the 90-minute, an aggressive bid on the 144-minute, along with
bullish liquidity on the other intervals, without any evidence of profit-takers stepping in. Quite
bullish!

Overall, the conditions look primed for another leg up - as crazy as that may sound!
Happy Trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2026-05-25 to 2026-05-29
