                                       Weekly Chat 2025-07-07


                                              Main Points



       -   VoEx remains within stability while VoEx-daily’s resides at its boundary line.
       -   Gamma-hedging is poised to introduce selling in all directions until ~2% spot-down on
           $SPY and $QQQ.
       -   The Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data showcase a reduction in GS counts to
           the ~500 market while GTM continues to print negative values.
       -   LDPM & S for $ES showcases bearish liquidity on the near-term timeframes with the
           weekly view showing the bear trap in persistansia.
       -   Expectation is continued turbulence with downside leanings.

                                              SUMMARY



               So far, the market has grown but the signs of stability have not. As price
               has increased, VoEx-daily has moved from its lofty heights within stability
               towards a more grounded locale located just on the boundary-line of
               stability.

               The Gamma-Hedging Heatmaps showcase persistent selling pressure
               throughout, which are set to produce headwinds for the market in all spot-
               up directions.

               The MWGS data show reduction in GS counts down to the minimum of
               sorts (~500) along with a negative GTM. This suggests a rebound is likely
               incoming but doesn’t say it outright (and neither are we ;).

               Study of the LDPM & S, & LL 1 environments for ES and VIX show near-term
               turbulence expected with the 90-minute and 144-minute unanimously
               showcasing the return of bearish liquidity.

               Taken together, on the surface the market is bullish but below there are
               still signs of a market stretching in an uncomfortable manner in order to
               reach these new heights, with the signs of a near-by pull-back so as to not
               overstretch.




1
    Pronounced L-D-P-M-N-S-N-L-L


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                2025-07-07 to 2025-07-11
                                              DETAILS


Hello all!
Last week, we left off with notions of anticipated downside – the consequence of which was the
universe bestowing $SPY with a 1.69% move to the positive and $QQQ with 1.49%! That’s the
opposite of our prescription!
We can witness this defiance below in the Gamma Hedging Heatmaps:




Whereas initially it appeared as though the selling pressure was doing well to suppress the
indexes, we can see in the latter-half of the short week that this stopped being the case.
These moves both irk and inspire: is the downside we were promised (or threatened with,
depending on your persuasion) finally dissipating? Let’s find out –
Starting as usual with VoEx

We see:




On initial glance, we see VoEx-daily has stalled at the boundary to stability – not the most
promising of features should one want extension into stability as a means to extend a bullish
outlook! But, since the goal here is to be objective as possible, we must maintain our
interpretations as such: VoEx is within stability and VoEx-daily is ?not in the Propagation Zone [an



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-07-07 to 2025-07-11
admittedly neutral placement rather than robustly bullish]. This entails overall bullish (to borrow
from LDPS, weak bullish) outlooks.
Moving onwards, let’s see how the market might be prepared to handle said movements with
regards to the Gamma Hedging Heatmap:




That’s some bearish sentiments performance expected!
Must like last week, we see selling pressure has inundated both $SPY and $QQQ (who sees selling
pressure extending further down than last week!). As we’ve seen so far, the market has been able
to absorb and prosper despite frequent similar environments – the name of the game seems to
be “let’s hope that holds true for next week!”.
In the event that it doesn’t, we see that $QQQ’s purchasing support starts about 3% down, and
~2% down for $SPY.

Moving onwards to our financial overlords we see: nada! Still? I went ahead and checked the data
again and its still cooking but it is still registering as “nothing is changing much”. With concerns
that perhaps our financial overlords have moved onwards and upwards to better indexes on which
to collect long puts, I expanded the net to include $IWM, $VOO, and so far – it seems that long-
put acquisition is absent!

I shall keep looking and/or start to hit my head against the wall to figure out if these data are
corrupted or malcomplete somehow! But until then, it appears as though, market-wide, no one
(read: our financial overlords) is that interested in collecting the premium of selling OTM puts!
Moving onwards, we expand our scope from the financial overlords themselves to the net effect
of their activities by way of investigating the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data. These
data showcase:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-07-07 to 2025-07-11
                                                                                    A   remarkably   low
                                                                                    gamma squeeze count!
                                                                                    Our concerns from the
                                                                                    weeks prior regarding a
                                                                                    growth     in      gamma
                                                                                    squeezes appears to
                                                                                    have been unfounded, as
                                                                                    we are officially at ~513!
                                                                                    One may remember
                                                                                    from a previous weekly
                                                                                    chat       where        we
                                                                                    discussed that this is the
                                                                                    traditional “low point” for
                                                                                    gamma squeeze counts,
                                                                                    as there are about ~500
                                                                                    equities in the market
                                                                                    that persistently sit
                                                                                    within            gamma
                                                                                    squeezes.

                                                                        If   history   is    any
                                                                        precedence,          this
                                                                        suggests that the tide of
                                                                                 gamma-squeeze
                                                                        recession     may     be
                                                                        nearing its physical
                                                                        minimal. Does this infer
                                                                        a       bounce      back
                                                                        therefrom? Or is it that
the market may persistent in a low-gamma squeeze state? If the answer to the former question
was “maybe” then your answer to the latter is likely “maybe”, and if the answer to the former
question was “maybe not”, then your answer to the latter is likely “maybe not”.
In coincidental nature from this current GS-minimum, we see GTM has been printing negative
values for awhile now – which suggests that the gamma squeezes (should they be there but
simply “moved past” as we’ve discussed previously) are still likely there and “working their way”
into the market2.
Is this echoed within the modified gamma squeeze data?

2
  By “working their way into the market” I mean the dynamics we discussed in Weekly Chat 2025-01-13 whereby the
large increase in spot moved the market out of the gamma squeezes, rather than the rapid reduction being
secondary to a natural destruction of said GS or some positional/structural change to the market. Under such
circumstances, we noted, this would keep the GS’s suppressed until 1) spot stagnated and 2) time passed. Since (2)
is guaranteed [and is important here as gamma will grow in magnitude as an options expiry approaches], this
suggests that any price stagnation may give up any lead the market has on the brewing gamma squeezes below.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                  for the week of                    2025-07-07 to 2025-07-11
This is a fuller view of the data (and the extent of it from this view), and showcases the GS amount
effectively being zero as per the Predictive Count Curve (PCC)! This really does suggest that there
is minimal room to go further down. In contrast to this notion, however, is the Predictive Growth
Curve (PGC) which is continuing a negative trajectory, suggesting that the brakes being applied
to GS growth are expected to be pressed even harder down.
The net result? This is a bullish configuration of the data on the surface. If one is inclined to expect
~natural~ bounces of sorts, then this configuration breeds a slightly different interpretation:
bullish on the surface but bubbly below! Nonetheless, even those in the latter crowd can expect
the data to showcase substantial growth should any be reasonably expected, prior to it being
experienced.
Moving onwards with this tentatively bullish outlook, we arrive at the LDPM/S data,




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2025-07-07 to 2025-07-11
On the top-left view for ES on the 90-minute, we see bearish liquidity has taken over and allowed
a bear trap to form. This places the next expected movement as down to LDPM-L6(377) at $6,235
(~<1.00% down). The same extends upwards to the 144-minute whereby we see bearish liquidity
testing LDPM-L5(144) at $6,271ish. The bearish liquidity puts testing LDPM-L6(377) into view,
which stands ~1.00% down.

Moving up in timeframes to the 987-minute in the lower-left corner, we see a somewhat bullish
scene as LDPS is showcasing bullish liquidity while LDPM-L5(144) moves to support price. This
support happens to also be placed at LDPM-L5(144) at $6,200-ish, and so it seems reasonable to
expect this as the next visit, should downside be visited upon. From there, and if bearish liquidity
should soak into the higher levels from the lowers, we see $5,830 at LDPM-L6(377) as the next
target (-7.80%ish from current spot).

Lastly, moving upwards to $VX on the 987-minute, we arrive at a continued and persistent
beartrap. In a somewhat unexpected move, we can see LDPMs have moved upwards just as price
worked to overtake LDPM-L5 – suggesting that there has been a bit of an `Eager Ask` stepping
in. In conjunction, this bear-trap it seems has worked to increase (or at least persist) the amount
of bearish liquidity in the tank (as denoted by LL-Amount) and flow is relatively still bearish (as
noted by LL-Flow being negative). This paints a continued expectation for bear-trap performance
until LDPS officiates the conversion from bearish to bullish! Thus, this places LDPM-L6(377) as
the next target for said beartrap at $6,032 (-3.75%ish), and should this fail, a test of LDPM-L7(610)
at $5,810 seems within view (-7.00%ish).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2025-07-07 to 2025-07-11
Thus, taken together, it appears the hedging environments will have some compatriotism in the
near-term as LDPS is painting the 90-minute and 144-minute bearish. It might be worthwhile
monitoring the 144 minute as it seems to be the last bullish bastion standing between the 90-,
and 144-minute meeting the 1-Week bearish flows!
Also, it’s worth noting that on all panels, except for the 1-week, the LL-Amounts and Flows are
heavily trending towards net bearish!

Moving onwards, let’s check out VX:




Here we see bulltrap, bullish, bullish and bulltrap! This is quite the confluence with the
aforementioned bearish flows noted above. (I’ll save the detailed work through for each
timeframe as an exercise for the reader).
Taken together, it appears the market is making me uncomfortable. Why?

   -   I would like GTM to be more near-zero and to have already experienced the burst of GSs
       following its prolonged negative stint before feeling comfortable about a bullish, GS-less
       future,
   -   I would prefer if VoEx-daily needs to decided where it wants to go definitively,
   -   I would be inclined to favor gamma hedging heatmaps that are not inundated with selling
       pressure,
   -   It would inspire me more towards fully bullish inclinations should the Weekly view from
       #ES provided by LDPM & S unravel its bear-trap configuration, and
   -   I would feel most reassured of the sturdiness of the foundations of the market if the DLP
       activity would restart!



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of               2025-07-07 to 2025-07-11
Baring these, I feel unwell bestowing a fully bullish outlook, and so a tempered one must be
crafted: near-term turbulence expected due to the lower-timeframe LDPM&S analysis along with
the expectation of selling pressure from the gamma-hedgers. This invites the outlook of a ~1.00
– 2.00% dip in spot as those are shared moves between the two data sets.
In the medium-to-longer term, the outlook remains tentatively bullish yet, as VoEx remains within
stability. Should VoEx-daily decisively move into the P.Z., GS counts rapidly start increasing, or
the bearish liquidity noted in the LDPM&S studies above start to come to fruition, then this outlook
would likely have to become tempered as well.
Next week, I hope to share with you some updates to the Dashboard!


Happy Trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-07-07 to 2025-07-11
