                                    Weekly Chat 2025-04-28


                                          Main Points



    -   VoEx-daily has spiked into stability while VoEx remains within the Propagation Zone.
    -   Hedging environments are conducive for bullish performance with $QQQ
        demonstrating no discernable gamma-neutral zone.
    -   Dealer Long Put activity remains at zero.
    -   MWGS data showcase substantial and rapid removal of gamma squeezes throughout
        the market. GTM is printing persistently low-positive values.
    -   LDPM/S assessment suggest ceilings at 5% - 10% for ES / $QQQ along with substantial
        room for $VX to descend in pursuit of an organic bid.
    -   VoEx Variance graphs suggest the market is still migrating towards instability, despite
        appearances.

                                           SUMMARY



           The market’s bull run has picked up steam, but the data are insufficient to
           instigate a metamorphosis to pure bullishness.

           VoEx-daily has spiked into stability on $SPY and $QQQ, bringing with it a
           bullish-until-proven-otherwise framework (with otherwise being VoEx-
           daily’s return to the Propagation Zone). VoEx remains within the P.Z.,
           highlighting expectation for a transient nature to this bullish performance.

           Hedging environments find themselves supportive for more bullish
           performance, despite $QQQ’s apparent lack of gamma neutrality, the
           absence of which sets the stage for the rapid introduction of selling
           pressure a few steps northward.

           MWGS data showcases an abrupt and reminiscent destruction of gamma
           squeezes as the price exceeded EPR the week prior. On the surface this
           suggests bullish performance but this is contingent on the gamma
           squeezes actually having dissolved rather than simply moved away from.

           LDPM/S showcase bullish outlooks for ES and $QQQ on the lower-
           timeframes with mixed outlooks on the higher timeframes. $VX, through
           the same lens, looks poised to offer substantial relief as bearish liquidity
           has taken hold up to the 987-minute.

           Prudency suggests bull-trap performance, but the data highlight
           continued and persistent caution for the return of downside.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-04-28 to 2025-05-02
                                             DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with notions that the market looked primed for a ~2.00 – 4.00% rise, after
which some downside should follow. In part, things progressed as expected, with $SPY moving
4.60% week-over-week and $QQQ moved 6.40% itself.
These are reasonably larger than our expected-price-ranges, as calculated from last week, which
found $SPY was expected to move ±3.04% while $QQQ’s expected range was ±3.55%. An
immediate consequence of these extra-moves is that we get to use our EPR-table! So, let’s do
that, let’s check on how these moves compare with the market’s expectations in number format.

 Symbol             T+5 Anticipated T + 5 Realized         T + 5 Ratio         T+5 %-
                    Move (±%)       Move (%)               (Real / Ant.)       magnitude Dif.


 $SPY                  3.04               4.06                1.35              28.73

 $QQQ                  3.55               6.40                1.83              58.71



These are some hefty exceeding-numbers! $SPY seems to have outgrown its expectations by
1.35x and $QQQ by 1.83x – this places both indexes well within reach for ~mean reversion~.

But – before we get too ahead of ourselves, let’s take aim at how the market maneuvered through
the gamma hedging heatmap for the week prior:




A bit of a dip at the start of the week, but progression up the ridge of purchasing support along
with a reduction in IV seems to have been supported quite nicely by the hedging environment. A
curious consequence of this view, however, is that the week was ending in somewhat a precarious
position with regards to IV ! Any more reduction thereof and the ridge of purchasing support might
have been crested.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-04-28 to 2025-05-02
So, taken together, the market did indeed bounce, and that bounce was bouncy, but now we are
left with a bit of a conundrum: on one hand lays the question regarding the longevity and health
of the over-arching downside expectations we’ve forged, and on the other hands, lays the question
regarding the longevity and health of the current bull-trap we are experiencing. The downside to
reality is that the more one grows in strength the more the other demunitizes and withers.
Thus, we should spend the remaining time we have together in our chat deciding which one ought
turn to dust and which one shall reign supreme.
Let’s get started!
Highlander Quote
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see $SPY and $QQQ have reacted to the recent performance and
find it to be quite spikey (in their own words), as we can see below:




Both VoEx-dailies have spiked significantly into the Stable Zone – this immediately tells us some
bullish oomph is well underway but when looking to see how long this might last (i.e.: is it going
to be permanent for a while or not), we find VoEx suggesting that its longevity might be short –
as VoEx is still within the Propagation Zone.
Nonetheless, one’s monkey brain can’t help but side-eye this VoEx performance as reminiscent
of VoEx’s performance at the start of March, where VoEx-daily spiked so significantly it moved
VoEx with it, suggestively suggesting an abrupt end to the downside expectations.
So, to this end, it seems bullish performance is expected on the near-term but per VoEx, this
performance is still a bull-trap. The name of the game here will be to monitor VoEx as the bull-
trap progresses, in particular if we can find any organic-ask ceilings in our investigations below
while watching for VoEx-daily to spike back into the Propagation Zone (or VoEx leaving it!)

With near-term bullish sights set, let’s take a peek at the hedging heatmaps to see how they might
improve or impede these outlooks for the week ahead.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-04-28 to 2025-05-02
Quite supportive! One might even say too supportive (for $QQQ at least). Both indexes look
surrounded by purchasing support. $QQQ’s obscene wall of purchasing support appears to max
out around $480-$482ish, and so we should keep this value in mind as the week progresses and
as we check on LDPM/S below, to see if there are any identifiable ceilings thereabouts.
But taken together, it appears as though the market is well prepared to handle a continued bull
run for the week ahead, as seen by the hedging heatmaps.

Are our overlords’ ambitions aligned accordingly also? Let’s check the Dealer-Long Puts to find
out:




Nope! Perhaps surprisingly (to our mortal minds) there seems to be no evidence or desire in DLP-
hood. This does dampen the party a bit – as it would have been quite a boost to moral if we knew
the cool kids were joining us in the dance. But for now, they appear to be sat on the sidelines.
Does this speak to the overall outlook that this performance is a bull-trap? Perhaps. But let’s not
presume the ability to manifest concepts on the same level as the Goldmen and the Sachs.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-04-28 to 2025-05-02
All we can say is it appears (per VoEx-daily) that a bull trap is underway, and this is an event that
is supported by the gamma hedging environment; but, despite how enticing it looks to us, for
some reason, DLP behavior suggests minimal confidence in $+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − style profitability.
Moving along, let’s expand outwards and onwards to the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data.
Quite the robust moves! The market saw a week-over-week decline in gamma squeezes of 22%(!),
                                                    a two-week-over-two-week decline of 34%,
                                                    and a month-over-month decline of 36%.
                                                    One might well think that the end is neigh
                                                    (the bearish performance end)!
                                                         These are some hefty gamma-squeeze
                                                         destructions! This destruction has left the
                                                         growth count curve starkly negative (hey
                                                         this is starting to look reminiscent) while
                                                         the overall growth is positive. A curious
                                                         mix of data!
                                                         Nonetheless, GTM is suggesting that
                                                         there is a steady flow of long gamma
                                                         coming into the market – no robust
                                                         positive GTM movements noted so far,
                                                         but rather a steady climb.
                                                         Perhaps DLPs are moot in lieu of DSPs!
                                                        This paints a robustly bullish picture in the
                                                        short-term, and if history is to set any
                                                        precedence, then from the last time we
                                                        investigated such rapid destruction of
                                                        gamma squeezes (Weekly Chat 2025-01-
13) then it suggests a rebound in growth is likely to follow (since the destruction of the gamma
squeezes was more a product of “moving past” them rather than actual GS destruction. This of
course caught up with the market as price stalled and the hitherto left-in-the-dust short gamma
started creeping back up). In fact, this
was the onus for the creation of the
updated MWGS we’ve been looking at!
So, let’s look at that.
From this view, we can see that the
breaks are being applied to the GS
growth (the purple line is negative,
telling us that acceleration is negative
which means the breaks are being
applied) and we can see this has in fact
worked to turn the growth-curve (gold
line) towards the negative.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of              2025-04-28 to 2025-05-02
Taken together, this suggests continued destruction of gamma squeezes and continued
application of the breaks towards their growth.
But – one can’t help but see more reminiscence as with 2025-03-17!
Taken together, the skies seem painted with a bull-run hue but in the distance, we can see the
clouds are still present.
VoEx-daily has spiked, suggesting bullish-until-proven-otherwise (with the otherwise being VoEx-
daily moving back into the Propagation Zone) in the setting of a bull-trap (as evidence by VoEx
itself). These short-term bullish moves are expected to be supported by the hedging environments
which showcase local purchasing support.
Some cracks do appear in the foundations of this framework, however. In the short-term, it is the
DLPs raising concern, namely because there is concern that none have been raised. Although
DLPs are “sentiment” in a way (as they are based off of the activity of others and thus the
perception of others), one can’t argue a more robust view could be crafted if there were a rise in
DLP activity for the short-term. In the long term (the bull-trap term), the MWGS data suggests
there is at least some evidence that the bull-trap may convert to a non-bull-trap (just bullishness)
as recent data show a rapid unwinding of gamma-squeezes.
So – with general pathways in mind, let’s take a peek at LDPM/S to see if we can identify an up-
and-down pathway.
First up, let’s take a peek at ES futures:




On the lower timeframes (90-minute and 144-minute, top panels) we see a fully bullish view. On
the 987-minute we see a bull-trap, with a nearby ceiling at LDPM-L6(377) at $5,860ish, which gives
an upwards breadth of 9.0%. The 1-Week view shows price having tested the organic bid at LDPM-
L2(987) and is now testing LDPM-L7(610) with bearish liquidity.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat               for the week of           2025-04-28 to 2025-05-02
Oddly, this weekly view brings into question the near-term bull-trap outlook (of course) as it
suggests the near-by ceilings at LDPM-L6, and LDPM-L7 may face some difficulties.
This suggests we may at least have time to gather data as price tests LDPM-L7 (which is only
~1% away from current spot) before committing to the next leg up at $5,800 at LDPM-L6(377).
As this test occurs, we can check the data to see how things are progressing.
For more clarity (hopefully), let’s check on VX to see if there are any ceilings or floors to highlight:




On the 90-minute, we see bearish with little reprieve, with a similar view on the 144-minute. The
only caveat is we can see LDPM-L5(144) has recently bent its trajectory quite robustly in a way
that’s reminiscent of a reasonably rapid conversion of ask to bid.
Zooming out, we see a 987-minute showcases bearish liquidity, and with the current spot at
$23.50, the nearest organic bid is placed at $21.28 (-10%ish), which a secondary floor at $13.66
(-42%ish).
On the maximum view, we see a bull-trap with downside potential to LDPM-L2, located at $13.18
(-44%ish), along with the presence of an inspiring eager ask.
Thus, a reasonable outlook seems bearish performance with an optimistic goal of $13-ish, along
with the opportunity for re-assessment at $23.50.
Before moving on, let’s check on $QQQ’s robust purchasing support and how it vibes with
LDPM/S:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2025-04-28 to 2025-05-02
The view is very reminiscent! Bullish attitudes on the lower-timeframes, with a ~soft bearish~
presentation on the 987-minute (with a ceiling noted at $501, +6%), and a bear-trap on the 1-Week
view 1. With regards to the abrupt boundary between purchasing support and selling pressure (as
seen in the heatmaps on $QQQ), LDPM doesn’t appear to have much to say around $480, other
than the ceilings at ~$501ish; but this is, admittedly, a rather large range.

Thus, similar outlooks for $ES and $QQQ – whereas $SPY sees a potential ceiling at 1% and again
at 9.0%, $QQQ sees a ceiling 6%, while VX sees a floor at around -10%. Overall, it appears bull-trap
continueth seems the likely outlook in the near-term, with return of downside to come.

With regards to the long-term view, let’s take a peek at the VoEx Variance distribution graphs to
see if we can identify which phase we are in. First up, let’s check on the past 2 months. A bullish
view is seeing the distributions spreading out and moving to the right, whereas if that isn’t
happening, a bearish outlook.


Starting first with the recent distributions for VoEx-daily, we find:




1
 Tradition dictates that the bear-trap designation doesn’t become obsolete until either price is above LDPM-
L5(144) (the first organic bid) or until LDPS turns back to bullish.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                  for the week of                   2025-04-28 to 2025-05-02
Continued migration to the left (the older trend is the smaller, lighter dashed lines, and the newer
trend/data are the bigger, darker dashed lines)!
That’s not quite the direction one would expect
if one were expecting a stabilizing market. If
you’ll remember from the cycle that the sign of
bullishness really returning to the market is the
start of the 3rd-transition phase, where the
distributions flatten out with peaks starting to
form within stability – but here, we see
continued migration towards the P.Z., with
additional peaks showing up further down to the
left (not right).
These data suggest the bull-trap’s metamorphosis to an outright bullish outlook is still quite
young, even with the prospects of a 9% bull-run on the horizon.
And so, thusly stands our view for the week ahead: bullish winds with the near-by spot-ceiling (per
LDPM) 9% up for ES, and 6% up for $QQQ, which should coincide to around a -10 to -40ish percent
drop in VX.
Quite the bullish outlook!
As with all traps, this one may be unstable and since these data seem almost too good, let’s keep
in mind some signs of an unstable trap (i.e.: if it looks like the aforementioned ceilings might not
get reached): VoEx-spiking back into the P.Z. would indicate the bullish run is over; VX finding
robust support at LDPM-L5 may give room for pause, along with any of the lower-timeframes’
LDPS turning bearish (or bullish for $VX). The presence of these data would likely encourage
prudency to take profit.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2025-04-28 to 2025-05-02
Thus, all together, bullish-skies abound with lofty sights of +5%+ but the data are still objectively
bearish for the long-term. This equates to a bull-trap outlook with all of the excitement derived
therefrom.
Happy trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-04-28 to 2025-05-02
