                                 Weekly Chat 2025-01-06


                                      Main Points



    -    VoEx has entered the Propagation Zone, putting Bearish Until Proven Otherwise
        into effect.
    -   Hedging environments for $SPY and $QQQ are diametrically opposed with
        atypic vanna-neutral hedging orientations.
    -   Put-selling on $QQQ remains present with new activity noted on $SPY.
    -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze Data suggests flows remain negative, despite
        recent casual reductions in gamma squeeze counts.
    -   A look at recent VoEx behavior suggests the market is in a fleeting window of
        recovery, but continued downwards movement of VoEx will pass the window by,
        leading to predominately bearish outlooks.
    -   Overall, prudence suggests both bearish outlooks overall and while respecting
        the put-sellers indications; likely forming bull-trap leading back into downside.



                                       SUMMARY


          Last week, there was concern for downside and this downside did
          arrive but whether it concerned is debatable. The data responded by
          moving VoEx into the Propagation Zone which immediately sets
          future outlooks towards the downside as the default.

          This default downside is down but in an almost in a goonish manner,
          the market is seemingly withholding the satisfaction of realization
          thereupon by way of presenting data of a bull-trap. This is evidenced
          predominately by DLP activity and a non-inhibitory hedging
          environment.

          Market-wide gamma squeeze data show a slightly decreasing
          population of gamma squeezes but a persistently negative GTM.

          Overall, it seems BUPO (of the Bearish variety) has returned just in
          time for a bulltrap.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                01/06/2025
                                           DETAILS




Hello every-body and Happy New year!
Last week, we left off with bearish ideations and, baring the last day this week, things
worked out pretty well! If we include the last day of the week, begrudgingly, I might add, it
still works out to a relatively successful week, with $SPY moving -0.51% and $QQQ
moving -0.76%; not quite as spicey as our destination target of -4.00% but if -I-we huff
some cope-ium, then images portraying the market before the-last-that-shall-not-be-
named day of the week should start to appear with the general shapes of -1.74% and -
2.24%, respectively.
These numbers please, as do the hedging heatmaps (well, before you know, that is):




Leading into then, we see a steady march downwards for $SPY (left) and $QQQ (right).
This progression worked to lead $SPY towards gamma neutrality, and $QQQ into selling
pressure until Friday (there I said it), at which time it looks like the market caught a bit of
purchasing support and conditions rebounded.
It might be worth mentioning (so that the math I did above seems less like a daily self-
affirmation ritual and more like data) that $QQQ’s introduction to that tiny square of
purchasing support (on Thursday’s close) occurred in the setting of mean reversion as
well (seen below) – causative? No but a nice confluence of forces.
Last week, the EPR for $SPY for Thursday was ±1.12% and for $QQQ it was ±1.43% - this
means that by the-day-before-the- .. on Thursday, the market had moved 43% more than
expected for $SPY for the week (and thus, overshooting the previously-established
weekly outlooks quite a bit and a day), and in a stunning display of synchronicity, $QQQ
had mustered a 44% overshoot by Thursday as well!
And so, it seems that with the spectre of ~mean-reversion~ and a pinch of purchasing-
support, and the market happily rebounded.
Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     01/06/2025
Thus, let us investigate how we stand with the market and look into what future we might
have; perhaps the market has moved on without us (and our nascent bearish inclinations),
or perhaps this is a quick fling before returning back to us. Who knows!
Then once we’re done prying, some notes about the state of things!
Despite that which is included below being notes pertaining to the current state of things,
they are, in fact, not the aforementioned notes about the state of things, that will come
after.
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see, frankly, a wild sight:




VoEx itself has finally made an entrance into the Propagation Zone! And with zeal – we
like.
This, of course, does several things, all at the exact same time:
      -    It initiates BUPO 1 (of the Bearish variety)
      -    It greatly increases the time-horizon for the expected downside,
      -    It turns all VoEx-daily movements into stability “Bull Traps” rather than signs of
           stability returning,
       -   Expectation for downside moves to be over a longer time-period rather than rapid
           movements (i.e.: a grind-down rather than a fast correction, similar to 2023-08 to
           2023-11-like).
As it turns out, these actions directly shape the interpretation of VoEx for this week:
       -   Downside is nearby,
       -   Bullish performance is bull-trap-until-proven-otherwise, and
       -   Downside targets from last week should be re-examined!


1
    Bullish Until Proven Otherwise or Bearish Until Proven Otherwise, depending.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     01/06/2025
A key-note here is that with VoEx moving into the Propagation Zone, means that the
~default behavior~, as it were, is to the downside, but that does not preclude the market
from expressing some individuality, should it find the reserves and inclination (such as
on Friday). Thus, before we become bound to the cozy, bearish bed beckoning our stay,
let’s do a quick round-about to make sure nothing is poised to disrupt our winter
hibernation.
The first step in doing this is ensuring the ground we’ve chosen to sleep on is sound and
free of any hills one might roll down inadvertently whilst scheming sleeping. Let’s
accomplish this with the Gamma Hedging Heatmaps:




Well – it would seem our little plot of cave is divided squarely into a vanna-unstable
orientation on the left ($SPY’s side), and a vanna-stable-but-technically-not 2- orientation.
The gist of this is that for $SPY, an increase in IV will bring about selling pressure (albeit
diminishingly so), while in $QQQ, this increase in IV will being about purchasing support
(albeit diminishingly so).
Although the directionality of their hedging are opposite, the two do share a general
heading towards gamma neutrality, with the two likely suspects for the week ahead being
the classic [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] or [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +] pairings; both paths poised to offer their respective clients
individual strife and collective neutrality 3.



2
  The official definition of a vanna unstable orientation is one in which “selling pressure increases as IV increases”;
but this doesn’t preclude the equivalent expression that vanna unstable is an orientation in which “purchasing
support decreases as IV increases”. Is an increase in selling pressure synonymous with a decrease in purchasing
support? Doth one require purchasing support to have selling pressure? Can one be certain one isn’t purchasing
simply because one is selling, or vice versa? Should I only eat half of one of these gummies next time? Perhaps. But
for now: no; vanna unstable should be strictly “IV increase increases selling directly” and so this orientation is more
of a vanna-neutral orientation.
3
  That’s to say, [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] will bring about selling pressure on $SPY (which is “neutralized” via $QQQ’s purchasing
support), and [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +] will bring about selling pressure on $QQQ (which is “neutralized” via $SPY’s purchasing
support).

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                          01/06/2025
Taken together, this suggests a collective “neutral” environment with a few quirks: should
$QQQ perform [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −], then monitoring its $: 𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼 relationship will be important; too much
𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − will introduce selling pressure. In the event of a [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +]-centric early-week, then I
would expect downside to continue to kick in, and $QQQ’s diminishing purchasing
support to, well, diminish.
Moving right along, we encounter our put-selling friends, who, if we are being honest,
seem way too good at this:




One may well note the sudden burst of energy on $QQQ’s put-selling during the week
(after the red dashed line) on $QQQ. This increase corresponds with 2024-12-31’s data;
after which, spot on $QQQ has increase a casual 1.43%, and IV 5% (although admittedly,
that isn’t that much for $QQQ, it reїnforces the notion of how good our overlord’s timing
is! The consistency almost provides credence towards their ordained overlordshipness).
$SPY has finally joined the party, with an increase in put-selling only showing up on Friday
– better late than never, I suppose!
Taken together, its more messy data! Ideally, one wants to entrust their personhood fully
to the put-sellers, and as such, one feels a strong pull to agree with their outlooks. Thus,
from the put-sellers, its would seem a near-term bullish performance is brewing.
Thus, so far, we see overall conditions have become “Default: Bearish” while put-selling
suggests heightened risk for profitability on the near-term in the general [$+, 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ]
direction, which is a direction supported by the current hedging environments and
represents a means towards gamma neutrality.
In other words: it looks like a bull-trap is forming!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       01/06/2025
Moving ever-so swiftly onwards, we see the market-wide gamma squeeze data (MWGS
data) showcasing yet another reprieve in overall activity, despite a continued negative
GTM (standard set-up of late it seems)
                                                                        At the very top, we see the raw-
                                                                        counts, which suggest a 1.01%
                                                                        increase in gamma squeezes over
                                                                        the past 20 days, and a recent
                                                                        12.70% decrease in gamma
                                                                        squeezes in the recency – this
                                                                        echoes our sentiments from last
                                                                        week regarding a lightening-up of
                                                                        the gamma flows, as it were.
                                                                        Despite these reductions in
                                                                        gamma squeezes, the growth
                                                                        curve (top graph), is still positive
                                                                        that growth is, overall, still
                                                                        positive.
                                                                        This outlook is supported via
                                                                        GTM, which is suggesting that,
                                                                        despite the recent reprieve in
                                                                        short-gamma flows towards the
                                                                        market, things are still flowing in a
                                                                        net-short direction.
                                                 On the surface, this seems like a
                                                 strange combination of data –
how can the flow of gamma towards the market be net-negative yet gamma squeezes
are diminishing?
Perhaps the recent gamma-squashing affects of an increasing IV over the past month
has worked to “reduce” some gamma squeezes throughout. We shall see! If so, this
provides an interesting situation where a decrease in IV (say over the next week)
associated with an increase in gamma squeezes would indicate that the gamma
squeezes are, in fact, still there! Just be suppressed by IV for now 4. Something to keep
an eye out for.



4
 This is a bit of a long story but supposing the recent price decreases have put a lot of dealer short puts ITM, then
an increase in IV would work to reduce gamma’s magnitude, which could then artificially offset the net gamma
balance and make things appear net long gamma when perhaps it’s actually short-gamma-suppression (this would
also cause selling in the event of neutral spot movement! [Almost like 2024-12-06 – 2024-12-13!]).

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                         01/06/2025
Now, before we leave for this week, let’s take another look at VoEx 5! Ever wonder what
the future looks like when VoEx does things? Well, to elucidate on this illumination, I took
$SPY and $QQQ from ~2008 or so until present, and calculated VoEx, and then calculated
the future price change over 20 days.
Then, the location of VoEx was placed on the X-axis and the change in future price was
placed on the Y-axis, and I colored the data to show where VoEx-daily was as well, the
results are pretty nifty! Take a look:




Pretty cool! This shows us that when VoEx is in the Propagation Zone, the future outlook
is quite bearish, and conversely, when VoEx is inside of Stability, the skies are bullish! But,
what about if conditions are changing, that is, what if, for instance, we live in a place where
VoEx has just moved significantly into the Propagation Zone? What does that future look
like?
To map that out, I took the same data but in stead of putting just VoEx on the X-axis, we
can calculate its daily %-change and put that. In this way, we can get a look at how the
change in VoEx correlates to future changes in price. In doing so, I kept the colors the
same except instead of coloring based off of VoEx-daily, it is based off of VoEx itself (so
we can keep track of where it was after it changed).




5
  Note: for some of the new members (hello!), VoEx in the Weekly Chat refers to the VoEx Graphs in the Weekly
Chat, which is an upgraded version of VoEx not included in the Dashboards or PDFs yet (I can’t figure out how), and
the only visual difference to keep track of is mainly that VoEx on this version is VoEx-trend (although both are the
gold line) on the older version, while VoEx-daily on this version is simply referred to as VoEx on the older version
(although both are magenta).

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                       01/06/2025
This produces a graph that shows us on the Y-Axis what the average future change in
price is for a given %--change in VoEx, based on where it changed to.
Let’s see the results!




Pretty neato! In the left box, we see that almost any changes (big or small) of VoEx doesn’t
affect future outlook much: in-so-long as VoEx is, itself, inside of stability, the data proport
positive pastures.
On the far right, on the other hand, we see something a tad different: when VoEx is within
the Propagation Zone, most moves except for casual growth of VoEx infer future bearish
outlooks 6, but it looks like a steady movement up of VoEx out of the P.Z. is the key to
future bullish outlooks.
To look at our current data, it show us just inside of the thin-window of recovery offered
by VoEx within the Propagation Zone! The ideal, then, would be for VoEx to essentially
start flattening out now if we are to have a somewhat neutral month.
But – overall, the data look particularly bearish. From here on out, it looks like BUPO has
been achieved (of the bearish variety this time; Bearish Until Proven Otherwise) is in
effect, and as such, any rogue bullish waves are treated as such: rogue and bullish.
The put-sellers have sent up the flairs of bullishness, and so given their historic
prescience, I think considerable width should be given to their insights but these flares,


6
  The ears of those of you who have been around for awhile should be ringing some! I’m always going on about
“things looking too spikey for a recovery”. Here it is in the data!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                01/06/2025
for now, remains the sole reminder of the bullish ways, casting long shadows against the
walls in our cozy bearish cave as they ascend the skies.
Happy Trading! Justi
State of Affairs
Ayyye, I got’s lots goin’ on ova’ here ‘kay?
I was thinking of leaving it at that, which would be hilarious, but, there’s unfortunately
some things to discuss!
Namely:
Bugs:
There’s a growing list of bugs that I’m aware of so please stop sending and I just wanted
to give you guys an update on them:
   -    Data Dashboard: Watchlist
        I am still working on this! I have reached out to someone for assistance so
        hopefully we will learn how just non-detail-oriented I am soon.

   -    Data Dashboard: Delayed Data
        Recently there’s been a strange delay in the processing of some of the data – and
        I can’t blame these ones on NASAQ like usual. I’ve narrowed it down to a network
        issue. This is good and bad. Good because it means its not my code (which we all
        knew ahead of time, right? ) nor the hardware but the bad news means its
        someone else’s hardware. I’m still digging into it and it is a top priority.

   -    Data Dashboard: Short Ratio
        A bug I can blame on someone else (not that acausality is inhibitory here) is the
        short-ratio fiasco happening. You’ll notice some short-ratios are through the roof.
        These data is being sent to me this way – but I think I have figured out at least why
        the bug is occurring on my providers side, maybe. If these abnormal values can’t
        be patched with my initial hunch, I’ll likely remove aberrant values until I find
        another source for the values. Thankfully it seems isolated to a handful of equities
        and tenures.
Non-bugs!
   -    LTA Robot: The LTA Trial is over! Those who have Premium membership with LTA
        will maintained, and those who do not along with the beta testers, will be removed
        and will receive an E-mail with further instructions.
        Thank you again for your help with beta testing the robot and I hope it was helpful!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   01/06/2025
   -     YT Videos
         I had another filmed and then deleted it accidentally from the camera while I
         thought I was transferring it. I’ll have another one out shortly. I am trying to get a
         good “flow” (read: competent enough not to delete a video after hours of filming)
         before I start diving into the thicker educational / DDS-centric material.

   -     Dashboard Upgrade:
         If you are dis-satisfied with this version of the Dashboard’s bugs and are looking
         forward to new, improved bugs, then I am pleased to let you know that the
         upcoming, improved Dashboard is well underway in its progress.

         I am working on trying to tie the new Dashboard into the current one somehow
         such that as features “on alive”, the updated version can be played with by you
         guys, then, once everything has met “Version 1.0.0” status, the swap can occur and
         everyone will have already been acclimated!

         I’ll keep you posted – ideally it can just be like another tab on the current dashboard
         but we’ll see if that’s possible.


Okay, I think that’s it for now –


Have a good week!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      01/06/2025
