                                  Weekly Chat 2026-04-20


                                        Main Points



       -   VoEx continues to rise dramatically into Bullish zone
       -   Gamma-hedging heatmaps showcase persistent selling throughout.
       -   Market-wideg amma squeeze data showcase rapid GS destruction and the
           predictive models expect continuation.
       -   LS&T data highlight the encroaching profit-takers and liquidity vacuums formed in
           response to these recent price appreciations.

                                        SUMMARY



           Expectations were for bullish performance and so did the market
           deliver in full, with $SPY and $QQQ drastically exceeding their
           expected-price ranges from last week. A consequence of this is the
           ever-growing threat of mean-reversion.

           VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ continue to rise dramatically, $SPY’s it
           should be noted is somewhat more conservative as VoEx-proper for
           $SPY is the only family member continuing its residence within the
           Bearish zone.

           The gamma-hedging environment has been inundated with
           persistent and diffuse selling pressure, offering non-stop selling
           pressure to any $+ attempts in the week ahead. The predictive data
           continue to show a gamma-foundation that is cooling.

           LS&T data showcase near-term profit-takers and liquidity vacuums,
           some as extreme as -5% (on the 144-minute) while the higher
           intervals content with traps, bullish on the lesser and bearish on the
           greater.

           Taken together, the risk of mean-reversion is substantial and so the
           immediate expectation is a rocky road down.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat        for the week of              2026-04-13 to 2026-04-17
                                                       DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with notions of bullish performance and a dwindling expectation that said
performance is merely a bulltrap but rather may represent the first start of a recovery. The market,
seemingly inspired by this news, decided to move quite robustly in the affirmative, with $SPY
moving a staggering 4.5% while $QQQ moved 6.17%! Quite startling moves.
We’ll bypass checking out these moves on the gamma-hedging heatmaps since, well, its basically
just straight up in a sea of blue, so let’s take the time instead to check in on our mean-reversion
data, to see just by how much the market exceeded our expectations.
        Stock                         Expected Price        Realized Price     % Magnitude
                                      Range (T+5)           Range              Difference

        $SPY                            1.77                     4.50                 87%

        $QQQ                            2.02                     6.17                101%

Those are some pretty remarkable numbers! If last week we were concerned with the spectre of
you-know-who1, then this week, these data suggest his apparition next week is all but decided.
This week, let’s check in with the data, weigh the risks of mean-reversion and see if we can pierce
the veil to answer definitively: are we recovered?

Recovery, recovery everywhere but not a bull in sight

Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




1
    The spectre of ~mean reversion~


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                  for the week of              2026-04-13 to 2026-04-17
These remarkable VoEx movements give a clear sign: the bottom seems to be in! The market is
positioned to keep going up! Well, particularly for $QQQ - $SPY’s VoEx seems a tad more
conservative in its impressions – let’s hope we don’t fall back into past paradigms whereby $SPY
and $QQQ start disagreeing with each other endlessly!
But, on the surface, this speaks to two main themes: 1) Instability is quite high (by way of just how
remarkable those VoEx-daily moves are), and 2) Overall, the outlook is up!

Moving along to the Gamma-hedging heatmaps, we see our first indication that the spectre of
mean reversion is already in the room with us:




From a sea of purchasing support to a sea of selling pressure, the hedging heatmaps look well-
poised to provide steady headwinds in the event of any $+ . Thus, it seems we have found the first
weapon in our spectre’s weapon arsenal.
Moving along to the gamma-squeeze, let’s check to see if the market’s gamma-flows have
continued to calm down.

In terms of raw-counts, we see the gamma-squeeze destruction is quite pronounced! Down from
the most recent peak of ~1,500 to 715, the market’s unstable gamma squeezes have been
severed in half (almost to the baseline!).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2026-04-13 to 2026-04-17
The predictive data is also rejecting future instability – sort of. The PGC (purple) tells us that the
destruction of gamma squeezes next week will be greater than it was this week but the PCC (the
counts) are not too convinced yet – it still suggests a greater number next week than currently
present.




In short, these data are mixed but the PGC tends to be the forerunner: once it dips into negative
territory, the GS destruction is typically quite uniform and robust. Perhaps if the spectre of mean-
reversion visits us next week, we can check in on these models to see how things fare: if we do
mean-revert and these data go undisturbed, additional credence is given to their outlooks but if
we mean-revert and these data rapidly oscillate, or swap back, then we may have to consider that
the extreme price action is mucking up predictive prowess.2
Moving onwards to LS&T data, we find:




2
    You’ll remember from a while ago our rant about ‘artificial GS destruction’ during rapid price appreciation.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                      for the week of                    2026-04-13 to 2026-04-17
Some curious findings!
Starting with the 90-minute:
       -   We have the second-half of an aggressive bid cascade starting by way of the “wave”
           starting. LT-1 is moving above spot, indicating that profit-takers are beginning to be
           detected.
               → This typically results in re-testing the local support (namely LT-5 currently) and
                   if bearish conditions form, down to the next, currently at LT-6 (-2.75%).
On the 144-minute we have largely bullish skies but it is curious to note the liquidity vacuum
between LT-5 and LT-6, which currently stands at a 5% difference.
The 987-minute shows:
       -   A bulltrap testing LT-7! No evidence of profit-takers (LT-1 through LT-4) moving above
           spot just yet but it appears LT-7 was not keen on letting spot through just yet.
Lastly on the weekly interval, we see an aggressive bid (albeit a tiny one for now) working to push
spot back above LT-5 as apart of its bear-trap recovery process.
Overall, these data don’t showcase the clearest of skies for continued price appreciation, and
thus, they set the stage for our comrade to visit the market. Mean reversion looks very probable
with a downside stop at LT-6 on the 90-minute but if conditions deteriorate further, LT-6 on the
144-minute (-5%) seems probable.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2026-04-13 to 2026-04-17
In terms of if the bottom has indeed been reached – for now, it does appear to be the case! The
upcoming mean-reversion, should it happen (and even moreso if it doesn’t) will shed light on this
as we will get to see the market in its first “stress test” since the recent correction.
For now, let’s expect a dip as mean-reversion, hedging heatmaps and profit-takers have their way
while positioning for longer bullish expectations.


Happy Trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of               2026-04-13 to 2026-04-17
