                                     Weekly Chat 2025-08-04


                                           Main Points



    -   VoEx-daily for both $SPY and $QQQ migrate further towards the Propagation Zone but
        stopped just short. VoEx itself has increased its downwards trajectory out of stability.
    -   Gamma hedging environments showcase local and thin gamma neutrality but $SPY
        finds itself surrounded by selling pressure whereas $QQQ finds itself surrounded by
        purchasing support. For both, the influence distribution leans towards bearish-neutral
        week.
    -   MWGS showcase a substantial increase in GS counts with a deepening GTM. The
        Predictive Growth Curve is positive.
    -   LDPM/S for ES showcases bearish liquidity throughout with the reëmergence of the
        bear-trap on the weekly view.
    -   Overall, prudency suggest downside with potential target 4% down.

                                            SUMMARY



           An exciting week. In short, this is likely the manifestation of the instability
           we’ve been tracking.

           VoEx is moving rapidly out of stability (although VoEx-daily has still not
           moved out of neutrality) with a steepening downwards trajectory. The
           (modified) gamma hedging heatmaps identify a small area of gamma
           neutrality for both $SPY and $QQQ but said neutrality is flanked by
           opposing hedging directions with $SPY experiencing a net bearish flow
           and $QQQ bullish.

           As a tie breaker, the MWGS data showcases an increase in GS growths,
           with a 36% increase week-over-week and a 63% increase 2-week-over-2-
           week. These values coїncide with a persistently negative GTM foretelling
           continued GS growth, and subsequent market downturn.

           LDPM/S for ES showcases net bearish data throughout all four intervals.
           On the weekly view, we can see that the bear trap has returned after a
           failed bullish surge to crossover LDPM-L5.

           Overall, it appears the reversion to downside is neigh. Expectation is
           turbulence with resolution towards the downside with potential for
           protraction.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                 2025-07-28 to 2025-08-01
 DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with default bullish vibes with emphasis to keep an eye on VoEx, and the
MWGS data. To this end, $SPY moved -2.41% and $QQQ moved -2.21%! We can visualize these
moves below in the (modified) gamma hedging heatmaps:




Pretty nifty! We can see the 30th/31st on $SPY was supported somewhat via the purchasing
support.
Its worth noting that the EPR for the week for $SPY was ±1.45% while for $QQQ it was ±1.77%.
This puts the realized moves well outside of EPR, and so, after dusting off the ouiji board, it seems
time to bring forth the table of mean reversion summoning; also known as the EPR table:

 Symbol              T+5 Anticipated T + 5 Realized          T + 5 Ratio         T+5
                     Move (±%)       Move (%)                (Real / Ant.)       %-magnitude Dif.


 $SPY                  1.45                 2.41                1.66               49.74

 $QQQ                  1.77                 2.21                1.24               22.12



These values aren’t too egregious but they do sit well within the “raises risk of mean reversion”
range, and so, there is some reasonableness to expecting a slight reversion in the upcoming
future. Let’s be sure to consider this within the assessment for next week!
Speaking of which, let’s do that now:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2025-07-28 to 2025-08-01
Next Week

Starting as usual with VoEx, we see:




All monitored conditions are progressing! We see VoEx-daily has decreased (although admittedly
not as much as expected) for both $SPY and $QQQ, with $SPY’s resting just shy of the
Propagation Zone. In tandem, VoEx-proper is steepening in its trajectory towards the Propagation
Zone.
This naturally foretells a bearish future, but one that is not given the full pomp and circumstance
accredited to those moments where VoEx has left stability.

With bearish winds in the hair, let’s check on the gamma-hedging heatmaps1:




1
 We’ll use the new algorithm for the Weekly Chats to keep an eye on its performance as it makes its way to the
dashboard.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                  for the week of                   2025-07-28 to 2025-08-01
Quite the difference between the two! It seems both have been brought into a sliver of gamma-
neutrality but whereas $SPY is flanked by persistent selling pressure in all directions (one might
note the vanna-unstable orientation from low IV to gamma neutrality on $SPY) while $QQQ has
quite the opposite: purchasing support! To $QQQ’s detriment, however, this purchasing support
diminishes in the[$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] direction if kept below the “ridge” of neutrality.
I’ll be particularly interested to see the difference in behaviors, if any, the two indexes experience
and influence each other as the week progresses (as well as how well this new algorithm
performs!).

But all-in-all, the data look quite bearish for now: VoEx-daily and VoEx are moving rapidly towards
the Propagation Zone while the gamma hedging environment are poised to only provide partial
support (via $QQQ).
With these data, let’s take a look at the MWGS data to see if the recent price movements have
caused any shifts:
                                                  A burst of growth indeed! A 36% increase in
                                                  gamma squeezes week-over-week, and a 63%
                                                  increase two-week-over-two-week.

                                                  Along with this growth, we see the growth curve
                                                  has risen above 0 once more all-the-while GTM
                                                  itself is printing more negative prints!
                                                  This suggests that the future is filled with gamma
                                                  squeezes both in terms of the current growth
                                                  rates measured (via the growth curve) and the
                                                  anticipated growth rates (via GTM).
                                                  Let’s check on the modified gamma squeeze data
                                                  to see if they share this sentiment:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2025-07-28 to 2025-08-01
Indeedioso! It seems the predictive
growth count (purple line) has risen
sharply into positive territory, telling
us that the anticipated growth rate is
substantially higher than it currently
is. For now, the predictive growth
count is slow to raise, and although it
finds the future to be filled with less
fewer gamma squeezes, its not too
far from overtaking the dashed line
into positivity, thereby officiating the
expectation of future greater GS
counts
These data are definitely starting to look like the downside anticipated may be severe and
protracted in nature.
Moving onwards, let’s check on LDPM/S to see how things look:




To this end, we see bearish prints all around!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of            2025-07-28 to 2025-08-01
Of particular note is the 1-Week view that showcases the return of the bear trap! It seems that
last week’s bullish surge resulted in only a failed crossover attempt of LDPM-L5. This places the
next target price at LDPM-L6(377) sitting about ~4% down from current spot.
Thus it seems the future is quite clear: downside seems prudent with a small chance of mean-
reversion, given the spectre of mean reversion. It will be time again, as before, to monitor this
downside as there are some concerning signs for protracted downside. We should keep an eye
out for realized, substantial gamma squeeze growth along with VoEx moving into the Propagation
Zone as the first signs of protracted downside. The first step should be down to LDPM-L6, as
seen with LDPM/S, from which a pause might be worthwhile to re-assess the data.
Happy trading!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of               2025-07-28 to 2025-08-01
