                                      Weekly Chat 2026-01-19


                                             Main Points



       -   VoEx-daily for $SPY continues its Divergence pattern while VoEx-proper remains
           bound at the boundary-zone. $QQQ’s VoEx-daily has stagnated while VoEx remains
           in the Propagation Zone.
       -   Gamma-hedging environments showcase persistent and local purchasing support
           along with a stable-vanna orientation for $QQQ.
       -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data show a market a its GS minimum along with
           the predictive data showing minimal anticipations for the future.
       -   LS&T showcase near-term instability and bearish liquidity while the longe-term
           views show a market utilizing its supportive resources in order to maintain a
           relatively flat price.
       -   Overall, turbulence and downside expected.

                                              SUMMARY


           The market appears to have been benefitting from a lower-than-usual volume
           profit over the past ~2 months with regards to the purchasing support and its
           relative impact provided by the gamma-hedgers. Currently, volume trends
           indicate an increase in volume which threatens the sanctity of this potency.

           VoEx for $SPY has failed to achieve new heights while VoEx-daily has continued
           its descent observed over the past 2 months. $QQQ’s VoEx-daily has stalled
           within neutrality while VoEx remains within the Propagation Zone. This is a picture
           of instability with downside likely.

           The gamma-squeeze data show a market in relative peace – with minimal GS
           noted throughout and with the predictive data forecasting a non-changing
           interim. These data should be re-assessed if downside starts for any evidence of
           sudden spikes in activity.

           LS&T data showcase near-term bearish expectations via the 90-, and the 144-
           minute intervals. These bearish inklings are balanced against longer-term bullish
           supports on the 987-minute and 1-week views, which look poised to be tested
           once again in the week ahead.

           Overall, the market continues to look unstable with emphasis on the near-term
           while the longer-term data suggest things are “holding on”. Prudency suggests
           bracing for downside and turbulence.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                 2026-01-19 to 2026-01-23
                                              DETAILS




Hello everyone! Last week, we left off with the idea of “flat-float” or “downside”, and the week, it
appears, decided on “downside. This is evidenced via $SPY’s -0.35% move and $QQQ’s -0.86%
moves. We can visualize these moves below:




It seems the market dove quickly and urgently into the purchasing support provided by the
gamma-hedgers to start the week. Last week, our thinking was if this occurred, it might be worth
keeping tabs on volume: the idea being that an increase in volume would minimize the extra
purchasing support’s relative “oomph” - is this the case? In crunching the numbers as last week
for the 20-day period, we see that throughout the week, the Z-score for volume rose from last
Friday’s value of -0.619 for $SPY to +0.16! This is definitely an increase.

For a less nerdy look, if we just look at the 5-day rolling average for volume to see how the most
recent previous Friday compared to the slightly, less-recent previous Friday; the outcome of this
adventure shows an 11% increase! Not staggering but definitely something! We can visualize the
recent change in volume behavior:
We can extend this reasoning since it
seems reasonably founded to look at
the recent behavior between volume
and price change. If we assume that
the general current market condition
is such that (1) hedging is providing
substantial    purchasing      support
[evidenced via the recent hedging
heatmaps] and (2) the relative
minimal volume is invoking a “boost”
the oomph provided by the gamma-
hedging, then if we look at the relationship between volume and price, we should see an inverse
relationship – that’s to say, over the past 2 months or so, as volume increases, price should tend
to decrease. Is this the case?


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2026-01-19 to 2026-01-23
Indeed! For the most part – we see that around 7M volume an inflection occurs whereby the larger
the amount of volume that enters the
market, the more downside it
experiences ! Now, this is far from a
complete picture of the situation
(and more data should be analyzed
than just 1.5 months of $SPY) but it
is quite in-line with our expectations
and prior findings.
Perhaps something to consider as
we move into the data for next week!

Well also we can do some of that
now – let’s adjust the volume for
$SPY and $QQQ to a 20-day rolling Z-score (so that we can compare them directly), combine the
data and graph: do we get the same showing?




Even more so! This is pretty decisive – the more volume $SPY and $QQQ experience, the more
price has declined!
Now with that in mind,




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of              2026-01-19 to 2026-01-23
Let’s get started with VoEx:




VoEx (both!) for $SPY have re-entered the Propagation Zone! If but ever so slightly but in
conjunction with the overall VoEx-daily divergence and the failure of VoEx to really exit the P.Z.,
this seems rather straightforward: downside is expected!

Its not unusual, especially in recent times, for there to be a small bounce before VoEx commits to
entering / exiting a given zone but even so – this is usually just a stall tactic before the market
catches up to VoEx, and so, prudence suggests downside is likely, near, and potentially exciting.
For $QQQ, the outlook is less dire in some sense, as VoEx-daily is further from the boundary zone
to despair (read: Propagation Zone) but what $QQQ lacks in VoEx-daily it makes up for with VoEx-
proper who is still quite content buried deep in the ground.
Thus, per VoEx, instability is still present, and its resolution for downside appears both obligate
and closer to us today than it was yesterday.
Let’s check in with the gamma-hedging heatmaps to see what influences, diminished or
otherwise, the hedgers might bring to the market:




A similar set up to what we have seen! On the surface, these are both bullish: $SPY’s inundation
with purchasing support allows for $+ until selling pressure kicks in at around ~$700, while
$QQQ’s more nuanced purchasing support gives for unrestricted take-off, in so long as IV remains
unsuppressed.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2026-01-19 to 2026-01-23
Given our recent foray into looking at the relative magnitude of hedging per volume, its worth
noting that these areas of purchasing support will benefit most should the market not experience
an influx of participants; so long as the market lets hedgers hedge, things should float up-and-to-
the-left – but, should the recent trend of increasing volume continue, this will erode the influence
said purchasing support will have on the market.
Thus, the hedging heatmaps are, on their faces, bullish but in context they are at-best beacons of
hope guiding us towards what an optimal market ought do in order to maintain said support.
Moving onwards, let’s check in with the
Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data to see
how things are coming along. Our counts
are steady over the past month, with the
market hovering around ~600, which is
about the usual “minimum” that the market
experiences.
From this view, things are calm! Growth is
negative, counts are low and all seems right.
Let’s check in with the predictive MWGS
data to see if they are picking up any
tremors:




All quite on the Gamma Squeeze Front it would seem! The PCC & PCG are near-zero, suggesting
that the outlook for the future is an environment similar to what we have today. This will be worth
checking in on in the future!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2026-01-19 to 2026-01-23
Moving along, we can check in with LS&T to see how liquidity conditions are on SPX futures:




On the 90-minute, we see bearish liquidity without any down-stream supports. Some evidence via
the lower-order LTs that some dip-buying has started (via the downwards pointed nature of LT1-
3) but this hasn’t translated yet to anything “substantial” (aka LT4 – 7 are not pointing downwards,
suggesting this is less of an “aggressive bid entering” and more “dip buyers dipping their toes”.
Thus, on this view, downside is near and without local supports.
The 144-minute (top-right) shows bearish liquidity and futures that have been trapped within the
LT6 – 7 channel for quite a while. Persistent bearish liquidity suggests another test of LT7 is
likely. For the bulls, some good news in that there is no evidence from this view of any aggressive
asks stepping in (recently at least) which provides some comfort that LT7 will persist in its
supportive duties.
The high-order timeframes demonstrate less overtly concerning findings: the 987-minute
(bottom-left) shows bullish liquidity unable to surmount LT5 since mid December 2025 which is
somewhat encouraging for the bears in the crowd but the persistence of bullish LS suggests
continued attempts to overtake LT7 is likely.
On the weekly, we see the profit-takers (LT1 & 2) continues to rise from spot, suggesting more
profit-takers are entering into the market. This is occurring along side a market that has relied on
LT5 for support and (presumably) bullish liquidity since July of 2025.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2026-01-19 to 2026-01-23
Thus, taken together, this paints a picture of near-term turbulence with likely movement to LT7 on
the 144-minute ($6,951.01) currently but any failure thereof will likely see spot free to move to
LT7 on the 987-minute ($6,883 currently) and ultimately down to LT6 on the weekly ($6,462)!
So, taken all together, the market is showing continued anticipations for near-term turbulence via
LS&T along with near-, and long-term turbulence via VoEx. This is balanced on the short-term via
the hedging environments (should they remain potent from the continued volume-drought) and
the 987-minute and 1-week LS&T views.
Downside expected and perhaps some excitement to follow!


Happy Trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2026-01-19 to 2026-01-23
