                                     Weekly Chat 2024-12-02


                                           Main Points



    -   $SPY’s VoEx has remained within stability while $QQQ’s VoEx has stalled at the
        boundary zone.
    -   Hedging environments are overall bullish-supportive, despite $QQQ’s proximity to
        selling pressure, which persists into the week ahead.
    -   Put-selling has ceased, suggesting minimal conviction for profitability in a $[+]IV[-]-
        manner.
    -   Overall, bullish outlooks persist with a quick side-eye to $QQQ’s cliff of selling pressure.



                                            SUMMARY



           Last week was marked with robust distinction between the relative
           behaviors of $SPY and $QQQ. Investigations found that $SPY moved 67%
           more than $QQQ did with respect to the market’s earlier expectations.

           This lack-of-movement coincides with VoEx stalling at the boundary-zone
           to Stability, suggesting that $QQQ is experiencing an isolated source of
           instability with a noteworthy presence currently.

           Concurrently, to this phantom menace is $QQQ’s persistence in proximity
           to selling pressure via the hedging environments, a location which
           provides amble risk in the event of a spot-down-into-selling-pressure
           scenario. This particular proximity comes on the tails of a seemingly
           heightened-sensitivity to hedging forces.

           Thankfully, the eventualities from these risks should be easy to spot and
           prepare for, so although it makes it on the list of considerations, the overall
           outlook for the week ahead is continued bullish performance with a note
           to watch $QQQ’s VoEx and hedging environments.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           12/02/2024
                                                    DETAILS




Hello every-body!
Last week, we capitulated in our struggle to keep the spectre of downside alive, and in an almost
pavlovian manner, the market has decided to reward us with +1.18% from $SPY and +0.78% from
$QQQ.
Unlike most instances where we might ponder checking out our favorite indexes moves
normalized against the expected-price-ranges (EPR) from last week to gauge just how much the
market’s moved with respect to the market’s own, prior expectations due to significant moves,
this week, I want to do it cause those moves are pretty tiny!
Doing so shows that $SPY was relatively well-behaved this week, with a 0.82 realized-move-ratio.
$QQQ, on the other hand, has only realized a realized-move-ratio of 0.41! Smashing these two
ratios into yet another ratio tells us that $QQQ moved 67% less than $SPY with regards to their
respective EPRs! That’s a pretty hefty difference.
This discrepancy in RMR can be visualized with the heatmaps from last week:




You can see $QQQ did a “loopdy-loop” while $SPY did a “~~~”. There’s a lot to consider.
In sum, it seems that $SPY was able to benefit from its aproximity to selling pressure, with respect
to $QQQ, whose nonaproximity, seems to have caused a lil’ Eddy current1, resulting all aqueous
roaring with little bite for consequence (so far?).
This is somewhat note-worthy as it implies the hedging environment might be particularly
impactful in recent times such that the absence of steady and robust purchasing support (like the
environment $SPY was privy to) seems to be associated with quite a remarkable difference in
relative performances.
So, let’s keep that in the back of our noggins as we progress and review the data, keeping an eye
out for any spooky Halloween antics, and then afterwards, let’s talk about the Robot!


1
    Fancy name for “splash splash go round round instead of whooosh”

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         12/02/2024
Ask, Ask everywhere but not an Bid to eat
Starting as usual, let’s check out VoEx:




Au debut 2 of our investigations, we come upon VoEx in all its majesty. Today, it seems, its majesty
is pointed towards the stable zone – mostly; $QQQ has some experienced some stalling at the
boundary of Stability – a curious pausing of progress northward, unlike its cousin $SPY.
It is in these moments of divergence that begs the question: but y tho?
For now, VoEx can’t tell us that answer, instead, it seems content to be telling us that up is the
name of the game, but, when looking upwards to the skies, it would seem they are a tad darker
over $QQQ-land than $SPY-land at present. Perhaps we should check it out?
Thankfully, our first view of checking-it-out demonstrates that conditions may be far from grave3
so let’s see what the heatmaps will do, ensuring to keep in mind the potential for greater relative
`reliance` on hedging-forces in the week ahead:




Well! It would seem that if the market is hyper-sensitive to purchasing support currently, then up
is indeed the name of the game!
Once-more, $QQQ finds itself in a slightly less-filled purchasing environment than $SPY –
something to keep in mind for both overall movement and the potential for a large discrepancy
between indexes.

2
    What does a ghost say to start his speech? He says “ooooooo daybooo”
3
    The grave is a serious place.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         12/02/2024
Overall, and taken together, it would seem that VoEx is suggesting upwards is most likely, but that
there are some rain clouds over-top $QQQ, and those very same rain-clouds are much closer to
becoming storm-clouds, as compared to the more sunny $SPY pastures, due to $QQQ’s proximity
to selling pressure. In particular, as we will see below, this may complicate IV[-]-based positioning.
Speaking of IV[-]-based-positioning-that’s-below, let’s check in on our put-selling friends:




Well, it seems like the group of put-sellers are certainly not bête4-ing on any IV[-] profitability in
the weeks ahead. Surprisingly, $SPY has persistently had moot put-selling activity, in large
contrast to $QQQ.
Taken together (but not overall how dare you), this seems to be strangely neutral. On one hand, I
think it’s reasonable to exclude $SPY’s put-selling from analysis for now - until they wake up more.
And so, on the other hand, we have $QQQ’s put-selling which has been more reactive to conditions
lately. On one of the fingers on said hand, we find that this reactivity is demonstrating itself to us
by way of disappearing from our sights.
En (the) surface this is bearish – but, moving a bit deeper, perhaps this positioning (or lackthereof)
is a reasonable position to take, given $QQQ’s proximity to IV[-]-induced-selling-pressure.
Supposing the put-sellers understand, in their own way, the proximity of this risk, then it would be
reasonable to assume that they have simply hedged against it by-way of not exposing themselves
to it.
Thus, is this silence a proclamation of certainty? Not quite – but perhaps it is a loud enough
murmur of risk to notice that of the subsequent two options, one’s magnitude appears greater
than the other’s:

       A) $+
       B) IV-
This adds some additional spice the considerations as it brings the put-selling interpretation into
a shrödinger’s state wherein if we can simply interpret the cessation of put-selling as simply a
neutral-risk-off scenario, then this, at minimal, puts IV[-] as a high-risk event. Such a suggestion
hearkens evermore the risk associated with $QQQ’s residing right next to a gamma-vanna
squeeze (i.e.: if it falls below purchasing support and then moves down-and-to-the-right as $[-]

4
    Only a bête would bet against the put-sellers!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           12/02/2024
and IV[+], bringing with it even more selling pressure). Perhaps VoEx pausing on $QQQ before
moving into stability was a noteworthy decision!
Thus, bullish seems quite bearish at the moment, and so, if we want to have bullish outlooks,
perhaps we should have bearish thoughts, for a causal $-, IV+ would be the best way to keep
purchasing support underneath $QQQ.
In sum, perhaps in the spirit of Halloween, it seems that a successful conjuration of the spectre
of downside once more; but whereas the data are bullish on the surface, it seems that $QQQ, for
some reason, is in a high-risk environment manifesting some particularly worrisome eventualities.
Thankfully, the consequences of said eventualities are not subtle: one only needs to look for $QQQ
using its available purchasing support to no avail while IV drops precipitously in which case the
price should just stagnate until it drops5. Thus, I don’t think the market is set up for a rug-pull as
the default outcome for the weeks ahead, but the noted instability does suggest this is both an
option and how the option would unfold.

Thus, in pursuit of achieving near-perfect prescienciance, the prudent trader would likely
acknowledge the near-by cliff’s edge but eagerly, if not albeit cautiously, continues forward.


Happy Trading,


Justin




5
  The current environment suggests that IV[-] would introduce purchasing support and so if price is stagnate while
IV[-], this would suggest that the market is simply ingesting any bid entering. Eventually, as per the heatmaps, this
will lead to selling pressure – after just having exhausted the potentially-majority bid.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                        12/02/2024
Robot!
Hello! I wanted to share some things about the robot with everyone:
The first is that the beta is going to be extended 1 month! I’ve been hearing a lot of good feedback
and I think 1 more month can never hurt! Thus, the beta will go until January 10th, 2024.
The next is that there is going to be an update to the robot Monday December 2nd, 2024 at 6PM
EST it is of note that this is a critical update so you’re going to want to reset your robots if:
   1) The robot is using fractional share sizing.
   2) The fractional share sizes exceed 10,000 units.
If this does not describe any of your robots currently running then all good! But if it does, or you
just want the latest version, then it is recommended you update. Remember to reset your alerts
so that the TV servers have the updated version as well.

Also – I wanted to share a recent technique I’ve been playing with the Robot, it mainly involves
trading crypto on timeframes ranging between 13-minute, 34-minute, and 55-minute candles. I’ll
describe the setups I look for below, but the process typically goes like this:
   -     Find set-up
   -     Go Long
   -     Activate Robot
   -     Exit at pre-designated point or let it keep running.
Easy peasy! Essentially the name of the game is simply finding the set up, entering the position,
and then just letting the robot take care of the rest, or exiting when your profits have been reached
(either via a take-profit or manually). With some crypto currencies moving upwards of 10% to 20%
reasonably often and reasonably quickly, this technique over the past few weeks has been pretty
fun.
So, let’s go through the steps:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          12/02/2024
1 – Identify Potential Possibilities
       To start we are going to want to narrow down the field for which cryptos we investigate
       for the proper set-ups. To do this, I started using TV’s “Crypto Heatmaps”.
                                                                 To achieve this view, notice on the
                                                                 top, I set the `Size by` option to
                                                                 `Market Cap / TVL`, and then set
                                                                 the `Color by` to `Performance 1h,
                                                                 %`.
                                                                 This view gives us a quasi-
                                                                 normalized/weighted view of
                                                                 crypto that is colored by price-
                                                                 movements.
                                                                 The goal here is to look for things
                                                                 that are either not moving when
                                                                 everything else is or moving when
                                                                 nothing else is.
                                                                 For this example, we’ll use ¢DOGE
                                                                 since I’ve been trading that a lot
                                                                 lately anyways (¢CLV, ¢DOGE, and
                                                                 ¢XRP have been fun).
With a list of a few cryptos to check out, I then head over to their individual charts, and I set the
following configurations:
   -   LDPS: balanced setting
   -   LDPM: standard LDPM-Fib with LDPM-Values & Statuses displayed with a order of 144.
   -   Configure LTA to be fractional share sizing, balanced setting, ±additional monitoring,
       (depending)
The key to this set up is LDPM.

   -   On the 55-minute chart, I look for anything with a recognizably bullish ceiling, these are
       typically found during `Bull Traps`, which we can actually see on ¢DOGE
   -   Then if it looks like the next ceiling is quite a bit aways (5-10%+) via the LDPM-values, I
       start investigating to see if a bull trap is present.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          12/02/2024
Although, I will also use the 34-minute interval if it’s a prime contender.
Once I visually see something that looks like a ceiling, I check the LDPM-values which shows that
from the current price to the `final` ceiling, the movement that can be expected is ~9.00% in total.
There is also note that there are lower-order ceiling at ~2.55% and some clouds at $0.42. This
gives two opportunities for profit:

   1) First leg: movement upwards +2.55%
   2) Then exit and monitor reaction to ceiling
   3) If data suggests movement to final ceiling is likely, go long until thereabouts ceiling.
From here, I quickly look at the lower-order LDPS&Ms to see if there is anything hiding anywhere
such that it shouldn’t be reasonable to expect movement up to the next ceiling once the 55-minute
LDPS turns bullish (if it does).
Switching to the 34-minute, we see that conditions are largely bullish but there is that pesky ceiling
at $0.43 with bearish LDPS. Not ideal!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           12/02/2024
Moving down to the 21-minute:




We see even less resistance but continued bearish LDPS!

This is almost the perfect set up!
It looks like if we monitor the 21-minute progress through $0.42, if conditions turn bullish and
price progresses, then movement northward ~2.55% seems likely, and, if conditions remain
bullish, movement +~9% seems the next stop thereafter.

Ordinarily this might be annoying to handle manually (for who knows when conditions will turn
bullish and/or how quickly those conditions will evolve) but with the robot its remarkably straight
forward!

One of the ways this can be navigated:
   -   The aggressive trader might establish an LTA to monitor conditions on the 21/34-minute
       and go long if indicated with a take-profit at 2%.
   -   Establish an LTA to monitor conditions on the 34-minute and go long until either the robot
       exits automatically, or the price has exceeded the first ceiling at 2% with bullish liquidity
       noted throughout, then transfer the position to a 55-minute robot with expectations of
       movement upwards ~9% (switching to the 55-minute robot for me indicates `this position
       has the potential to need a longer time-horizon for maturation`) with a 5% take-profit. If
       met and position exited, I would revisit the 13-minute interval, check to see if conditions
       are still bullish and the ceiling still ~+3-4% away, would likely re-enter with a 13-minute
       LTA with “Additional Monitoring Activated” so as to exit ~aggressively~ when indicated.
       Once profits secured, sit out and wait for next opportunity.
   -   Set an LTA on `Aggressive` on the 55-minute with `Additional Monitoring` for the ultimate
       hands-off approach and just assume that the aggressive 55—minute will capture the next
       leg up while exiting promptly when liquidity is sapped at the ceiling.
   -   A balanced LTA on the 13-minute or conservative with additional monitoring to try to
       capitalize on the bullish lower-order LDPM states (since LTA won’t do anything until
       conditions are bullish anyways)



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         12/02/2024
But as you can see, the goal is to essentially “leap-frog” up the ceilings as bull-traps develop (these
seem to be the best set-ups) and just using the robot to take care of the tedium such as
monitoring conditions and keeping tabs of things!

Since there can be several of these conditions at any given time in crypto, I
tend to end up with a lot of robots “queued up” so that, for instance, when its
ready to switch from the 34-minute to the 55-minute on ¢DOGE’s progress,
all I have to do is toggle the 34-minute off and toggle the 55-minute on, as
you can see on the right:
This means most of my day is pretty straightforward: keep an eye out for
bull-traps, if one looks enticing with a identifiable, decently northward ceiling,
then the only thing left to do is toggle the robot on, enter a position, and viola!
There are some notes / observations, however, if you are planning on trying
this out:
    -    Be mindful of your portfolio balances with crypto if you are toggeling
         robots on/off that can enter and exit positions but if just using LTA
         to signal an exit, the portfolio amount doesn’t matter as the exit
         signals are always `exit full position`.
    -    Be sure to not mix up webhook URLs if you have multiple TradersPost
         connections.
    -    Don’t mix up alert titles! I use the <Ticker> - <Timeframe> system
         mostly.
    -    Patients is key – sometimes it might be a day or two before a nice
         set up occurs (during these times, I typically just set the robot on BTC
         on 90-minutes to catch any moves that might happen while
         distracted) but with proper opportunity observing the lack of
         frequency is made up easily with the abundance of movement.


Anyways, I just wanted to share that with you guys in case you wanted
something new to try this week and beyond – let me know how it works out
if you do!
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            12/02/2024
