                                      Weekly Chat 2026-01-26


                                             Main Points



       -   VoEx remains in the Propagation Zone for both $SPY and $QQQ while VoEx-daily
           continues its existing pattern: jagged downwards trajectory.
       -   Hedging environments showcase persistent and full purchasing support
           immediately surrounding $SPY and $QQQ, extending spot-down with spot-up
           selling pressure.
       -   Market-wide gamma squeeze data is largely unphased with recent performances.
       -   LS&T data showcase numerous nearby LT resistances intermixed with bulltraps
           and developing bearish liquidity on the 987-minute.
       -   Overall, expect turbulent, flat week as the market positions for more downside.

                                             SUMMARY


           VoEx-daily’s divergence on $SPY continues and has even touched into the
           Propagation Zone for the week, resulting in a slight recoil. This places both $SPY
           and $QQQ’s VoEx-daily squarely in their expected behavior as they both approach
           their final destinations. VoEx for $SPY has returned to the Propagation Zone,
           wherein $QQQ’s has persisted.

           The hedging environments showcase supportive areas for both indexes, which
           may be beneficial to helping liquidity (as seen via LS&T) push above the LT
           resistances noted on the 90-, 144-, 987-minute, and 1-week views.

           Overall, expect turbulence as bullish liquidity attempts to push above LT organic
           asks with hedging’s support – but VoEx is suggesting this may just be a stall
           before continued downside.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                  2026-01-19 to 2026-01-23
                                               DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we left off with ideations of downside, which the market was kind enough to deliver –
partially. $SPY’s final weekly move was -0.35%, while $QQQ slightly bucked the trend with a 0.25%
increase! This is, of course, not the whole story, given the early-week, bearish start whereby $SPY
fell to the tune of -2.04%, and $QQQ suffered similarly at -1.91%. Pretty gnarly!
We can visualize these moves in the heatmap below:




Some pretty dramatic moves into the purchasing support to start the week! Thankfully, the market
and purchasing support seems to have come into view and helped guide spot back up.
This week, we’ll examine if this northward glide is indicative of stability returning to the market, or
if conditions remain tenuously and we are just seeing tremors before the quake.

The squiggles – be they squigglin’?

Starting as usual with VoEx, we see:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2026-01-19 to 2026-01-23
In the short-term, it appears as though VoEx-daily has bounced upwards slightly – in fairness to
the eager bulls, this could be the early signs of a new bounce but said eager bull would have to
be quite eager, especially if one considers the overall pattern of VoEx-daily on $SPY and $QQQ
as of late. A pattern-approach positions perceptions in familiar place: VoEx-daily is continuing its
downwards descent on both $SPY and $QQQ, and the recent activity is testament to this fact. If
so, this leaves a curious suggestion: the recovery might have been the bounce that we would
normally expect to see during these VoEx behaviors / during this part of the VoEx-daily cycle.
These bearish near-term prints are highlighted by VoEx’s location; both VoExes find theirselves in
the Propagation Zone!

This brings bearish short-term outlooks and long-term outlooks into view. Let’s check on the other
parts of the market to see if there is any shock absorption left. First up, let’s check on the gamma-
hedging heatmaps:




These are quite supportive for both $SPY and $QQQ! Both exist surrounded by purchasing support
which extends spot-down quite aggressively; conversely, both also exist with hefty selling
pressure spot-up.
This is certainly supportive, and in-line with the idea that perhaps there is a bounce hiding around
here somewhere, even if it’s just fueled by hedging.

Moving onwards, its worth mentioning the gamma-squeeze data [not shown], which has remained
relatively moot throughout this week’s erraticum; this extends for both the normative data and
the predictive data (somewhat surprisingly!)

So, we can swiftly move on to the LS&T data, to see how things are shaping up in liquidity-land.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2026-01-19 to 2026-01-23
Up top, we have on the 90-minute timeframe a bulltrap! Currently attempting to move above LT6
& 7 – we wish it well. There’s a good amount of profit-taking occurring there as well (by way of
LT1-4 being above spot) which adds some concern concerning the longevity of said bulltrap.

But, as we move up in intervals, to the 144-minute specifically, we find bullish liquidity yet again
trapped against LT resistances. This time, however, we find the eager parties are below spot –
indicative of eager buying rather than eager selling.
Then if we move to the 987-minute on the bottom-left, we find bearish liquidity and a recently
reaffirmed LT-7 support. The bearish liquidity suggests another test of LT7 is en-bound, but the
encroaching eager bids suggests it might be put off until a test of LT5 at $7,002 is performed.

On the weekly we see a classic “clinging bullish” showcase whereby spot has fallen officially
below LT5, indicating a switch in LT-5’s status as an organic bid to an organic ask. Now, bullish
liquidity is doing what it can to keep spot trending upwards despite this newfound persistent ask.
This “clinging bullish” usually results in stagnate price and then ultimately downside.
Thus, it appears said outlook is the most reasonable for the week ahead: likely stagnate price
where spot attempts to work against the newfound and abundant LT resistance while the last
remaining bullish liquidity drains. Then another retest of LT7 on the 987-minute, after which, down
to LT6 on the weekly.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2026-01-19 to 2026-01-23
But – should an early week break above the LT resistances, coupled with the hedging
environments, it isn’t unreasonable to expect the bounce to extend some before coming back
down.
Calendar spreads at LT6 &


Happy Trading!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat        for the week of            2026-01-19 to 2026-01-23
