                                    Weekly Chat 2025-04-07


                                          Main Points



    -   VoEx and VoEx-daily remain within the Propagation Zone.
    -   Gamma-hedging heatmaps offer minimal purchasing support with nearby selling
        pressure that extends in the $− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +.
    -   Put-selling has modest activity on $SPY with diminishing activity on $QQQ.
    -   LDPM/S showcase bearish liquidity with downside targets extending 7% down until the
        first initial organic floor, followed by 20%.
    -   Prudency suggests significant downside.

                                           SUMMARY



          This week finds the data continuing in their bearish pursuits.

          VoEx-daily has moved back into the P.Z., along with its older sibling VoEx.

          The gamma hedging environments are poised to offer little support in
          pursuit of gamma neutrality, and instead offer an expansion of selling
          pressure in the spot-down, IV-up direction.

          Put-selling increased throughout the week on $SPY but this behaviour was
          not matched within $QQQ, who is witnessing its continued degredation in
          persistent put-selling.

          MWGS data show the gamma-squeeze engine turning on with counts and
          acceleration increasing significantly. This brings with it both continued
          downside expectations but increasingly downside expectations.

          LDPM/LDPS showcase a market-at-large that appears to be in the process
          of testing the nearest organic bid located about 7% down on SPX. With
          continued bearish liquidity and instability will see spot work to test the last
          identifiable floor at 20% down.

          A general investigation into the risk of mean-reversion following such
          substantial downside failed to produce any significant results, and so the
          outlook remains consistent: downside appears imminent, promising and
          substantial.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of                2025-04-07 to 2025-04-11
                                                     DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with the notion that downside was imminent, promising and substantial. In
response to our expectations, the market offered a 9.06% reduction in $SPY, and a 9.87%
reduction in $QQQ. With these values being slightly larger than the EPRs for the week, let’s bust
out our handy-dandy EPR table:

    Symbol              T+5 Anticipated T + 5 Realized                 T + 5 Ratio            T+5 %-
                        Move (±%)       Move (%)                       (Real / Ant.)          magnitude Dif.


    $SPY                   2.13                    9.06                   4.25                123.86

    $QQQ                   2.73                    9.87                   3.62                113.33



Now those are some numbers! In accordance with superstition, they are likely to summon ~the
spectre of mean reversion~ and without thinking too much about it, we will simply acknowledge
that fact and put it in our future foray fore financial foreseeing files for later.
These outrageous moves are even more awe-inspiring when contextualized within the hedging
heatmaps, as displayed below:




Both indexes fell off of the map with their end-of-week moves. We can see the initial part of the
week clustered at the start, with a curious (if but ever-so discernable) increase in IV1 during a
relatively stagnate price gave way to migration towards gamma neutrality in the lower-right
quadrant, only to see it overshoot gamma neutrality and the subsequent, faint purchasing support
and land somewhere in the abyss.




1
 Never a good sign when [$0, 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +]! In a handwavy fashion, this implies dealer short put uptake was quite robust
while the price wasn’t decreasing. Nothing screams confidence like running to the lifeboats before the ships even hit
something!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                   for the week of                    2025-04-07 to 2025-04-11
With such profound market moves, our task this week is somewhat extensive and from a bottom-
up approach, the following lines of inquiry will attempt to be explored:
   -   Did the market sacrifice enough for the spectre of mean reversion to visit? If so, what can
       we expect with regards to bullish performance? Are there any identifiable ceilings per
       LDPM/S?
   -   Is downside still expected in the near term (with or without suspected mean reversion)?
   -   Is downside still expected on the long term?
   -   If downside is expected, how far down does this rabbit hole go?
   -   Will this rabbit hole be explored slowly or urgently?
To start, prudency does suggest that assuming mean-reversion is in the near-term future does
seem reasonable – all else not considered; 4.25x moves on $SPY and 3.62x moves on $QQQ are
truly extraӧrdinary and so should beget extraӧrdinary considerations.
But, before we get ahead of ourselves, let’s
Get started with VoEx
as usual.




Both $SPY and $QQQ demonstrate VoExes within the Propagation Zone, and so the outlook is
continued downside on the medium-, and long-term time horizons. VoEx-daily looks to be
deepening its connection to the P.Z. as well, which minimizes the risk of any brewing bullish
performances (i.e.: bull traps) and gives near-term bearish outlooks. VoEx-daily’s reactivity to any
early-week stagnation will be paramount; should it start spiking rapidly again, then this can be
considered a sign that mean-reversion’s conjuration was successful.

Otherwise, both VoExes are adamant: downside and urgently.
How are the hedging environments poised to handle this?




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2025-04-07 to 2025-04-11
Curiously.

$SPY and $QQQ are near identical with their configurations but if the crosshairs are to be trusted,
$QQQ has found itself much closer to imminent selling pressure, as opposed to $SPY which has
forged some cushion.
Given the novelty of the markets, I tried my hand at a novel new handwavy technique of drawing
out my expectations2:




These represent the three pathways my gestalt is leaning towards me, and they can be broken
into two main categories:
      -    Either the initial part of the week sees an increase in IV (right-most lines) as the market
           stretches towards gamma neutrality, or
      -    The initial part of the week sees a decrease in IV as the market clings to purchasing
           support towards gamma neutrality.
The boundary zone between selling and purchasing support does little in my head except to
potentially “delay” some downward movement (left-most and middle curves) but since (even with


2
    Completely based only on ~vibes~.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat               for the week of              2025-04-07 to 2025-04-11
our well-wishes) purchasing support has been minimally effective lately, prudency suggests some
restraint in our confidence for its the future performance.
Thus, VoEx is signaling downside without evidence of a bull-trap or mean-reversion forming (no
VoEx-daily spike behavior noted), and the hedging environments are poised to offer marginal
purchasing support in pursuit of assisting mean-reversion that is flanked by diminishing existence
spot-down or immediate selling pressure spot-up.

A tricky spot to be in but one that is largely bearish.
Moving onwards, let’s check on the put-selling activity to see if anyone has thrown their hat into
the rink:




On the left ($SPY) we see a curious increase in dealer long puts! This activity does suggest bullish
anticipations but given the environment that they are being sold in, is curious. The interpretation
of this, is, on the surface, bullish in that there is some expectation for profitability in the [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ]
direction (likely a bet on IV reversion?). Nonetheless, within the scope of ~mean reversion~, one
can’t help but tally this in the spectre’s favor ($SPY’s activity at least).
Moving onwards, we arrive at the market-wide gamma squeeze (MWGS) data, which showcases
a 35% increase in GS count week-over-week, along with a 55% increase biweek-over-biweek and
somewhere between that for month-over-month (47%).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                for the week of                  2025-04-07 to 2025-04-11
In comparison, the middle graph shows us that we have reached higher gamma-squeeze counts
                                                   since 2025-03-10, and before then 2024-04-
                                                   ish.
                                                     These are respectable counts!
                                                     On the bottom, we see GTM doing –
                                                     something. It seems the overall flow of
                                                     gamma towards the market is either
                                                     neutral or effectively zero, as GTM-trend
                                                     (gold ribbon) adheres tightly to baseline.
                                                     Checking in on our modified / improved GS
                                                     data, we find a rising Predictive-Count
                                                     Curve (PCC) (brownish-golden line), and a
                                                     positive and northward-facing Predictive
                                                     Growth Curve (PGC):
                                                     You’ll remember that the PCC (count curve)
                                                     is similar to a standard “count curve” but
                                                     with a small little unsupervised learning
                                                     algorithm sprinkled into the mix, such that
                                                     it provides us both the relative amount of
                                                     gamma-squeezes but also tells us the
                                                     anticipated future for said counts. To this
end, we can see that the current relative-amounts have reached into 2023-correction territory and
the counts are expected to increase (since PCC is pointed up).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of              2025-04-07 to 2025-04-11
Additionally, PGC, which showcases the current and anticipated acceleration, shows a positive
value (meaning acceleration is increasing3), and it is pointed northward, suggesting that things
are poised to continue increasing.
These are bearish prints! Particularly noteworthy is that are very reminiscent of 2022 !
Thus, it would appear that the gamma-squeeze foundations of the market echo the bigger-picture
VoEx data, namely that VoEx’s presence within the Propagation Zone confers protracted
downside, so too does the erosion of the market’s gamma-foundations.
These findings do reїnforce the notion of continued downside in general terms, but they do little
to highlight (or lowlight) the potential for either a bounce (attributable to ~mean reversion~) or,
at least, slowing down of said downside (attributable to perhaps some selling capitulation).
To parse through data, let’s take a look at LDPM and LDPS, to see if there are any signs of an
outreached bid that may slow, or even reverse, our current trajectory.
Starting with our view mainly on SPX (left) and ES (right) on the 987-minute, we find:




From this view, we see $SPX showcasing a direct descent through LDPM-L1 (LDPM-987); since
there is no identifiable floor. Thus, I went ahead and modified the code (again) and whipped up
LDPM-1597. Thankfully, the new algorithm can handle these relatively absurd values, and when
applying LDPM-1597 to the chart (which is now LDPM-L1, and LDPM-L2 has become LDPM-987),
we see:




                                          𝑚𝑚       𝑚𝑚
3
  This is like saying gravity is going from 9 2 → 10 2. This means that ever second not only sees an increase in
                                             𝑠𝑠     𝑠𝑠
meters-traveled but it also sees the rate of meter-traveled increase such that after the first second, the velocity
 𝑚𝑚
( ) will increase not just by 9 but by 10!
    𝑠𝑠



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                    for the week of                    2025-04-07 to 2025-04-11
No identifiable floor for $SPX noted. A curious note is that if LDPM-L5 (LDPM-144; neon-blue) had
stayed its course leading up to 2025, conditions might well be considered a bear-trap; but with its
                                                                            slow         migration
                                                                            downward,        even
                                                                            before     price   fell
                                                                            through       LDPM-L7
                                                                            places our current
                                                                            situation in more of a
                                                                            “organics          are
                                                                            converting to ask!”4. A
                                                                            worrying thought.
                                                                            In terms of any
                                                                            identifiable    eager-
                                                                            bids     looking   to
                                                                            `scoop` under the
price, there does not seem to be any evidence of that on this view, either! Whereas some of the
`lower-order` (i.e.: eager) LDPMs (LDPM-L3 [LDPM-34], LDPM-L4 [LDPM-55]) are moving towards
the price, they are doing so in less of a `scoop` fashion (as characterized by a rapid and direct
descent under the price) and more in a `conversion` fashion – for instance, notice how the eager
LDPMs are acting very similar to the organic LDPMs!
Perhaps there are no eager parties currently present!

Either wave, handwaving aside, on this view, there is little showing of support.
Moving towards the future we find the futures which are showing an ever greater response to the
price decline: a full retraction of LDPMs!

Whereas on $SPX we
saw eager parties
acting like organic
parties with bids
converting to asks,
on ES we see a more
direct and explosive
change; namely, the
organics         are
behaving like eagers.
Compoundingly,
these neoëagers are
engaged     in   an
aggressive ask cascade! Thus, not only is there no evidence of any outreached eager bids, there
is also no evidence of bids. All LDPMs (even if you go down to LDPM-5!) are actively and



4
    A “systemic” flipping from a bull-stack to a bear-stack.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                       for the week of   2025-04-07 to 2025-04-11
prominently retracting from the price! This represents a rapid and eager conversion from bid to
ask.
With such data, no downside could reasonably be identified.
Let’s lift our spirits by moving up to the 1-Week view:




Here, we do have some floors! Let’s investigate –
First, one might note that price has fallen rapidly and sternly through the most recent floor at
LDPM-L7 (LDPM-610). In addition to the currently bearish liquidity, this gives the impression that
the next floor is likely to be tested, which is currently sitting at LDPM-L2 (LDPM-987) at $4,720-
ish. This would represent another ~7.00% decline.

Should the market continue to fall, and should society still exist in recognizable form, then we can
expect a test of LDPM-L1 (LDPM-1597) about 20% down.
A quick historical inquiry finds the last time LDPM-1597 was tested (and briefly dipped
underneath) was in 2020, where it acted as the concrete floor on which the market bounced:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2025-04-07 to 2025-04-11
                                                                               Prior to that, the
                                                                               market fell under
                                                                               LDPM-1957       on
                                                                               Nov 05, 2007,
                                                                               after which the
                                                                               market decided to
                                                                               relinquish ~50%
                                                                               of itself before
                                                                               mounting         a
                                                                               recovery in ~Mar
                                                                               2009.




Thus, these prints are quite severe in their message and intent: the market is going down, and
likely significantly so.
But, in these extraӧrdinary times, we should be extraӧrdinarily cautious that we aren’t missing
anything that might result in some chaos.
Thus, to ensure we have looked under every stone and behind every cranny, let’s form a quick list
of things we would expect to see, if either A) a bounce were forming due to, predominately, the
spectre of mean reversion; B) a bounce is forming such that a bull-trap is likely to follow; or C)
downside will continue at such a pace until moral improves.
A – Mean Revisionist’s Footprints
What would one see if the spectre of mean reversion were about? Well, probably something like:
   -   VoEx-daily would start spiking northwards while the price stagnates or experiences a
       green day; ideally the VoEx-daily response would be `exaggerated` (i.e.: big),
   -   Supportive hedging environments to help supply bid with minimal ask overhead,
   -   Modest pause or stalling of gamma-squeeze growths,
   -   Rapid uptick in DLP behavior
   -   Prescence of identifiable eager-bids on moderate timeframes with LDPM
   -   Migration from bearish liquidity to bullish liquidity per LDPS
B – Bulltrap Suspicions (or even a slight bull-pause)
   -   VoEx-daily again,
   -   Decrease in GS growths (presumably rapid and `artificial` as discussed in Weekly Chats
       2025-01-13 & 2025-01-27),
   -   Prescence of at-least 1 organic bid on a 144+ min timeframe per LDPM with eager bids
       present,
   -   Bullish liquidity per LDPS
C – Continued downside until moral improves



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-04-07 to 2025-04-11
      -    Unsupportive hedging environment with [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +] selling pressure,
      -    VoEx-daily migration deeper into PZ,
      -    GS count growths and negative GTM,
      -    Cessation of put-selling,
      -    No identifiable floor on 144+-interval LDPM with bearish stacks, with no identifiable
           `scoop` or out-reached eager bids
      -    No bullish liquidity found on 144+-interval LDPM
      -    DLP cessation
      -    LDPM-Vol increasing
Let’s tally!
For the mean revisionist, the following criteria from the list hold true:
      -    Uptick in $SPY put-selling behavior
Welp.

Let’s tally up the bulls:
      -    No evidence of VoEx-daily moving to indicate a spike,
      -    GS growths have increased,
      -    No eager bids located anywhere,
      -    Bearish liquidity per LDPS
That doesn’t seem like a high score! Moving onwards to downside continues and, well, we can
see that most of the data fit within said category.
In continued efforts to refute the forming expectation that downside is local, immediate,
significant and accelerating, perhaps VoEx Variance data
showcases a widening of distributions, and thus,
indicate a potential nearing of something resembling a
market-bottom 5?




5
    Weekly Chat 2025-03-31 for the flow-diagram.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                     for the week of          2025-04-07 to 2025-04-11
Not in the slightest! We can see the latest behavior is reminiscent of phase 2, whereby the left-
ward lean has started to slightly coalesce, but given the continued presence of left-tails, it seems
conditions remain on the right (and thus, increasingly bearish) side of the bearish-distribution, as
opposed to the left (which would showcase a flattening out with peaks on the right (inside of
stability))
This paints a market-wide expectation of bearish performance on a long-term scale, which
highlights the price-points set above.




Taken together, the data are remarkably bearish with few bullish redeeming qualities. Even with
a competently performed summoning ritual for the spectre of mean-reversion, its presence is only
noted in the brief sliver of purchasing-support found within the narrow range of [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] for $SPY
and $QQQ and some quirky DLP behavior on $SPY; neither of which separately or jointly, breech
the burden of prove to stop a market-wide correction.
Furthermore, our investigations into any available stopping-power by way of eager-bids within
SPX or ES on the 987-minute and 1-week intervals showcase a vacant eager-bid lot as LDPM
suggests the masses are converting to the ask camp. On SPX the eager parties were behaving
not like an eager-bid scooping down under the price, but rather like a cautious and slow
conversion of bid to ask and ES showcased a full-house (all LDPMs) Aggressive Ask Cascade
underway. These paint wholly bearish prints in the immediacy and longer-term.
The hedging heatmaps, should they be enacted in force, can only serve to protect the market as
long as it clings purchasing support and does not dip its toes into the spot-down gamma
neutrality.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2025-04-07 to 2025-04-11
The market-wide gamma squeeze data suggests growth is to be expected, bringing with it
additional bearish ideologies.
Thus, without much data to convince otherwise, prudency adheres to prior acclimations and
readjusts her seatbelt for continued downside that is expected to be imminent, and substantial.


Happy Trading!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of             2025-04-07 to 2025-04-11
