                                 Weekly Chat 01/08/2024


                                       Main Points


      -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ have spiked.
      -   VoEx Divergence has re-appeared on $SPY and $QQQ, with VoEx-trend having left
          the I.Z.
      -   Hedging environments are supportive for $QQQ but this benefit is not observed in
          $SPY, who remains in a vanna-unstable orientation.
      -   The MWGS data is suggestive of continued growth in gamma squeezes, with a
          30% W-o-W increase, and GTM prints suggesting more is incoming.
      -   Put-selling has increased slightly on $SPY and remains elevated on $QQQ.
      -   Overall, BUPO has ended, and the expectation is therefore down.



                                        SUMMARY



          BUPO has ended as VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ have both moved out of
          the Inhibition Zone but without commitment to the Propagation Zone
          just yet. Unlike the last almost-journey to P.Z., the current market
          conditions are in quite a different state.

          Hedging environments remain in a vanna-unstable orientation for $SPY
          with the nascent purchasing support on $QQQ remaining in the $-/IV+
          quadrant for now. Recent events bring the efficacy and depth of this
          purchasing support into question.

          Market-wide gamma squeeze data are showing high gamma-squeeze
          growth, and there is an expectation for more growth, per GTM.

          Put-sellers have been put-selling. $QQQ’s persistent DLP growth
          continues and $SPY ended the week with a smidgen of its own. QQQ’s
          behavior is concerning given the surrounding data prints. In isolation,
          these data are bullish.

          Overall, BUPO has ended. GS growth is positive, and it is expected to
          remain positive. The hedging environments seem ill-equipped to keep
          the market from experiencing downside; thus, bearish expectations reign
          supreme, despite our DLP friend’s insistence to the contrary.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   01/08/2024
                                          DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we left off with thoughts of BUPOUPO (of the Bullish variety) conjoined to an ever-
increasing side-eye towards the more visible of the nascent bearish warning signs forming on
the wall.
These warning signs prevented adopting an outright bullish outlook, but this hesitation seems
to have been reasonable considering this week’s performance. $SPY fell 1.55% throughout the
week, while $QQQ followed suite with a casual 3.12% decline.
Coincidentally, last week, there were discussions regarding the risk associated with having
minimal downside protection was displayed today, especially in $QQQ, noting that:
                                              “
So far, this configuration hasn’t caused the market significant issues such that the market
hasn’t “needed” significant purchasing support ….
 Fortuitous thus far for the market but something to keep in mind as we ponder data that may
                           continue to suggest BUPO is nearing its end.
                                              “
And with beautiful timing, the market demonstrated to us just what the market might look like
should it “need” significant purchasing support.




A fun observation about this week’s progression is the sudden halting of the budding downside
steam-roll towards the end of the week.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    01/08/2024
  We can more distinctly see this if we dust off some physics textbooks and calculate $SPY and
  $QQQ’s acceleration-or-something throughout this whole ordeal (not to be pedantic but its
  actually “jerk” not acceleration; this is important as you’ll soon see).

Date                                                          $SPY                             $QQQ

2023-12-29                                                       19                                  58

2024-01-02                                                      -58                                  -24

2024-01-03                                                      -40                                  -61

2024-01-04                                                      132                                  52

2024-01-05                                                       11                                  76



  These values help us examine sudden shifts in momentum. The more positive the value, the
  more the price is suddenly jerked towards the upside, and the more negative the value, the more
  the price is jerked toward the downside.
  These values showcase some cool observations but the noteworthy finding can be found when
  the numbers switch from negative to positive, which occurs on the 4th for both $SPY and $QQQ.
  This switch to positive values are akin to slamming your foot on the breaks, which, for both
  $SPY and $QQQ, meant drastically slowing down
  and ultimately halting further downside.
  What’s curious about this on the 4th, $SPY’s
  “brakes” were applied (-40 → +132 [+430%]), which
  happens to be right after $SPY’s hedging
  environment switch from vanna unstable to vanna
  stable! (Shown on right).
  Curiously, however, the braking power experienced
  on $QQQ wasn’t as potent, with only 52 units-of-
  jerk noted instead of $SPY’s 132 units-of-jerk (87%
  less jerking power!).


                                                  Perhaps unrelatedly, $QQQ’s hedging heatmap
                                                  on the 3rd       was still a vanna-unstable
                                                  orientation, whereas $SPY’s had already
                                                  changed to include purchasing support (top,
                                                  right). Once $QQQ’s heatmap adopted a more
                                                  stable-orientation on the 4th (below, left), the
                                                  next day (on the 5th), $QQQ experienced even
                                                  more jerking power (+46%) than it did when


  Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     01/08/2024
only its compatriot $SPY had available purchasing support.
This increase in downside-breaking is not as impressive as $SPY’s 430% increase but, still, it
seems to have had sufficient impact in curtailing end-of-week continued downside!
Expanding this vantage point into the future, we can see that the end-of-week jerk for $SPY
reduced significantly1 (from 132 → 11), suggesting reduced “push” experienced by the market,
whereas $QQQ’s end-of-week jerk rose slightly (52 → 76).
It seems having purchasing support on both indexes is somewhat beneficial! A takeaway from
this is that there seems to be some (but potentially diminishing) “bullish momentum” behind
$SPY and $QQQ as the week ended.
Thus, it might be our job to determine just how much movement this momentum might give us
(if any).
But - with all that being said and done being in the past, let’s instead move towards the future,
shall we?
The future of tomorrow!
Crap, too far. Let’s back it up some now, y’all.
Today’s future!
VoEx just couldn’t help itself.




1
  Mentally, “jerk” can be thought of as the force you feel when you are being pushed on the swings. If you are
being pushing with the normal direction (like you would if you wanted the person to go higher), you have positive
jerk, but if you are pushing against the normal direction, your jerk would be negative.

$SPY’s substantial decrease in its jerk on Friday would be akin to the person pushing you getting distracted, and
not really pushing you as you start to move away from them; you’re not going to stop swinging upwards, but
should your friend be distracted for too long, you will quickly start to slow down.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                    01/08/2024
With a small bounce off of the Propagation Line once more, we find ourselves out of BUPO
officially (of the Bullish variety), yet without the ability to adopt BUPO in its stead (of the Bearish
variety). This inability stems from VoEx’s commitment issues, which is currently being
manifested with the Propagation Zone.
Now, there very well may be some of you in the crowd that find this particular VoEx behavior
reminiscent. And of those who find this VoEx behavior to be reminiscent, there may even be
those of you therein that feel as though this reminiscence might foretell a subsequent, equally
reminiscent price-action.
Now, for those who feel that this VoEx behavior is reminiscent, and feel as though this
reminiscence might beget reminiscent price action, I just have to say: woah there partner. Let’s
take a peek at the data.

The first observation is that the last bounce off of the P.L. occurred on 2023-12-21, during which
time VoEx, as mentioned, bounced off of the P.Z. and right back into the I.Z!
This time, not so much.

That’s not the only curious difference, either! Notice that from the day before 2023-12-21 2 (the
day VoEx spiked to the Propagation Line), a strange change occurred on $SPY’s heatmap!




When VoEx indicated things were getting spicey, the market ordered some purchasing support!

The consequence? A 1% recovery on the 21st, sending VoEx reeling back into the Inhibition
Zone. (And the removal of the advantageous purchasing support!).

Ooooh, okay - Was there such an emergence of purchasing support for us this week?




2
    2023-12-20 for those of you counting.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            01/08/2024
                                            Yup! Just when VoEx fell out of the Inhibition Zone (on the
                                            3rd) to the Propagation Zone, purchasing support emerged
                                            and helped prop the market up some! It was even nice
                                            enough to say around for the 4th (left).
                                            Digging into this curious difference further, one can’t help
                                            but wonder why the market’s response to this
                                            opportunistic purchasing support wasn’t equal?

                                            For instance, whereas last time, at least for $SPY, the
                                            emergence of purchasing support foreshadowed a ~1%
                                            recovery the next day, but this time, $SPY only rose 0.14%!
                                            Quite the difference.
This difference brings with it additional concerns with respect to any future anticipations
regarding the longer-term influences of this purchasing support. Last week, after the 1%-
appreciation-day, the market rose about 1% more over the next week. Will our current future be
able to sustain such movements if there is already a large reduction in the “bounce” provided by
the purchasing support? Is the current purchasing support somehow less “strong” than
previously?
In pursuit of these questions, a strange idea occurred to me: what if the market it’s not that the
purchasing support’s size isn’t inadequate but rather that the market’s expectations are just
unsatiable? What if the market is worse-off than it was last time and just simply requires more ?
To analyze this brain-thought, let’s assume the purchasing support is the same, but it’s the
market is different, can we find data anywhere that might support this view3?
The natural first place to look for a quick but reliable view of different market conditions is
VoEx!
Let’s look at VoEx then (again). Earlier, VoEx’s response to Friday’s price action on $SPY and
$QQQ was simply described as “a small bounce off of the Propagation Line”, but what if that’s
not the whole story?

Paradoxically, to start out, let’s assume that the bounce off of the Propagation Line earlier in the
month and the just-recently-experienced one are fundamentally the same.



3
  Suppose I tell you that I dropped a bowling ball onto a trampoline, and the bowling ball bounced $10. Then, I
dropped another bowling ball onto the same trampoline and the ball only bounced $5. Then then, suppose I ask
you “what is the difference between the two bowling balls?”. The initial response might be to analyze the two
bowling balls: surly they are different, no? Maybe the two weigh differently, so let’s go get the scale and start
fussing with numbers. You know the deal.
But, what if instead of two bowling balls, I tell you it was the same bowling ball both times? Now, all eyes would
slowly shift to the trampoline, possibly with a hint of concern: what changed?

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                     01/08/2024
On the surface, this suggests that the recent bounce off of the Propagation Line contained
“less” instability than did the bounce from last month – since it didn’t make it into IZ, there must
be less instability, despite using the “same” bowling ball; reasonable?

Well, sure, but you’ll notice the change in price between these two dates is substantially
different (150% different, to be exact). So, if we want to ensure that its not the market that has
changed, perhaps we should “scaled up” the price movement on Friday to see how much
instability would have been provoked today given the same change in price as 12/21/23?
Once the “weight” of the price-action is calculated and made equivalent, any differences in the
response from VoEx (all other things remaining constant) should give us an objective measure
as to the relative instability or stability being experienced.
Well – we can’t. VoEx’s algorithm is, unfortunately, is too incoherent tricky for fun ”off-the-cuff”
experimentation – but, that’s okay. We can do the next best thing.
Let’s look at the absolute change in VoEx against the change in price; in other words, let’s see
what the relationship between VoEx. Doing so will allow us to see when VoEx is more sensitive
to changes in price and when it is less sensitive to changes in price.
In other words, we will be able to see when the trampoline is changing, not the bowling ball.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         01/08/2024
Pretty cool! There are several interesting findings (VoEx graph of $SPY for Reference):




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       01/08/2024
   1) From ~2023-03 to ~2023-06 $SPY experienced steady price appreciation.
   2) Around the start of 06/2023, $SPY briefly entered BUPO before VoEx fell briefly into the
      Propagation Zone. You’ll notice at this point, VoEx becomes less responsive to price-
      action (i.e.: price is contributing less to VoEx’s assessment of stability or instability; and
      as such, it is becoming less sensitive to price-action).
   3) Mid-2023-06, VoEx falls into the Propagation Zone, and from mid-2023-06 to the end of
      2023-06, the price depreciates. During this time, VoEx is traveling deeper into PZ and the
      price is decreasing all the while VoEx is signaling the price is no longer causing
      instability; thus it can be said that stability has been found on the downside (at least as
      far as the direct influences of price-action is concerned).
   4) $SPY rebounds and sends VoEx back into the Inhibition Zone. This causes VoEx to once
      again become sensitive to Price (third arrow to the left).
   5) BUPO resumes.
   6) Between ~2023-08 and ~2023-11, VoEx remains predominantly within PZ and the price
      continues to depreciate except for two times at the start of 2023-09 and 2 weeks later
      (these can be seen as spikes on the “Response” graph; circled in magenta).
   7) At the start of ~2023-10, $SPY starts to appreciate once more and VoEx once more
      indicates increasing sensitivity to price movement.
   8) BUPO resumes and VoEx “calms down”.

Our current phase is seeing another end to BUPO as VoEx is becoming increasing sensitive to
the instability being brought by price appreciation.
In fact, using this information, we can now directly compare how concerned VoEx was with the
price appreciation from 2023-12-21 and the price appreciation from 2024-01-05! From the graph
you can see it has increased, and numerically, it can be said to have increased 2.5x!
So, although the VoEx bounce off of the Propagation Line this time may not have been as large
as it was before, when accounting for the concurrent change in price, we see that this response
was larger than it was last time.
An additional finding from this investigation , is that we can observe that VoEx has been hyper-
sensitive to any movements that aren’t downwards movements (very observable around 2023-
08 (6 on graphs) after VoEx had recently moved into the Propagation Zone, and again during
2023-10 (7 on graphs) when the price started to not depreciate).
This sensitivity has only been curtailed by VoEx’s appreciation for BUPO (as we all have by now)
but the recent ignorance of price-action is no longer is present: any movements that aren’t
depreciatory are still provoking instability.
Neato!

So, going all the way back to our original train-of-thought regarding the efficacy of the
purchasing support present on $QQQ: it would seem that the purchasing supports inherent
efficacy may not be disrupted in and of itself, but it might just that it is simply be dwarfed by
other forces in the market (perhaps VoEx is becoming more sensitive to jerks elsewhere).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         01/08/2024
On $QQQ the difference between this bounce and the last one is even more pronounced:




A familiar but not equal set of conditions are apparent with $QQQ. Last time, VoEx only reached
inside of stability, and spiked immediately back into the Inhibition Zone, whereas this time,
$QQQ’s VoEx moved into the Propagation Zone and, in similar fashion, responded towards the
I.Z. with Friday’s appreciation.
Before moving on, it should be noted as well that, despite the loss of VoEx Divergence last week,
its back! And not only is it back it’s been activated 4.
What does that mean? Well, according to traditional VoEx wisdom: downside.
A small hinderance to this majestic
display of VoEx, although one that I don’t
think poses too much threat, is $QQQ’s
hedging heatmap, which demonstrates
renewed and persistent purchasing
support within the $-/IV+ quadrant.
As suggested above, however, I do find
the burden of proof that $QQQ’s
purchasing support would be sufficient
to starve off the downside that we’ve
been looking forward to for the last
several months now (and that is
suggestive throughout a vast area of the
market).
So, it is indeed there but, for now, let’s put it in our back-pocket as we migrate towards the other
data.
4
 Just an easier way of saying VoEx-trend moved out of the I.Z., but considering the need for a footnote explaining
this, perhaps just saying “VoEx-trend has moved out of the I.Z.” would have bene better.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                       01/08/2024
                                 First up in our migration is GTM
                                 and the macro space for gamma
                                 squeezes.
                                 In the top graph, we see that
                                 gamma squeeze growth-rates
                                 have indeed spiked, after about a
                                 month     of   slowly     moving
                                 northward.
                                 Currently, the growth-trend is
                                 positive, and in the bottom graph
                                 we see a sky-rocketing GTM print.
                                 This suggests continued gamma
                                 squeeze growth should be
                                 expected.
                                 It is worth noting that these prints
                                 are occurring concurrently to an
                                 already-experienced 30% increase
                                 in the number of gamma
                                 squeezes in the market over the
                                 past week.

                                 Hefty.
                                 Below, we see the revised version
                                 of GTM along with some
                                 moments-in-time pointed out;
                                 mainly these moments in time are
                                 periods of prolonged negative
GTM prints.
These prolonged periods of
short-gamma influx into the
market were associated
with ~10% declines and -7%
declines over the next 1-2
months.
It would appear that from
this view of GTM, we are,
ourselves, currently in the
beginning stages of such
prolonged     short-gamma
complexes (remember that

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                          01/08/2024
the market and MWGS “lags” behind GTM since it measures gamma flowing towards the
market).
Taken together, this demonstrates a strong expectation for the continued emergence of gamma
squeezes in the market, which is associated with medium-term price depreciation.
It is worth noting, that the past two episodes of prolonged short-gamma expectations occurred
in arguably more stable conditions; according to VoEx, at least.
Hefty!
Now, before we go and buy our apocalypse bunker in New Zealand from Mark Zuckerberg on
craigslist due to all this bearish data, let’s look at what our superiors (intellectually, physically,
and financially) are up to.




Oh, okay.
Nevermind then. BUPO’s back!

-
-
-

Just kidding – I don’t think they are correct.
I don’t disagree often with our DLP overlords but after preponderance of the evidence, I can’t
help but think that someone might be being greedy, and furthermore, that greed may not be the
best leader.
But, only the future will tell – in isolation, these DLP prints are associated with future price
appreciations, and we can see that even on $SPY, the week ended with just a smidgen of put-
selling.

I will be very interested in keeping an eye on these data as the week progresses. Especially
considering these OTM DLPs pose a threat on two fronts:



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           01/08/2024
   1) If the price depreciates and these puts become ITM and IV rises, hedging will shift from
      purchasing to selling (vanna will diminish delta substantially despite gamma’s efforts
      causing selling as the heretofore robustly negative delta becomes ever-so not robustly
      negative), and
   2) If the price depreciates and the puts get closed out, which will cause additional selling.
In either case, a moment or two of $-/IV+ can send the market into a very unpleasant situation
(this doesn’t even mention if people try to start going dealer short puts, which would cause even
more selling!).
Hefty.
And so, it would appear that the data are finally getting interesting, which seems to be
coinciding nicely to the market becoming interesting as well.
VoEx Divergence on $QQQ and $SPY after a 2-month period of BUPO (of the Bullish variety) is
worrisome for downside (but, we can’t refute, the small sense of vindication accompanies these
recent, more definitive, changes in the data).
The lack of appropriate purchasing support on $SPY is worrisome for downside.
The positive growth rate of gamma squeezes along with the continued expectation of gamma
squeeze growth per GTM is worrisome for downside.
The large presence of DLPs and their potential futures is worrisome for downside.
Overall, there seems to be a lot of worry for downside.
And so, I’ll be focusing my attention in the week a head on protecting myself from downside,
and if I’m lucky, profiting from it.



Happy trading –


Justin


P.S. Next week, I’ll discuss the progress with LDPS and what its emergence means for you, my
dear readers.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      01/08/2024
