                                    Weekly Chat 11/13/2023


                                         Main Points


   -   VoEx has increased its position within the Inhibition Zone after a green week,
   -   Hedging Environments are in a vanna-unstable orientation,
   -   DLP behavior is un-inspiring with a week-over-week decrease in activity,
   -   MWSG data is suggestive of an incoming flow of short-gamma (gamma squeezes)
       into the market,
   -   𝑉𝑉 2’s collapse is flattening out and becoming reminiscent of pre-2022.
   -   Overall, a technical BUPO (of the bullish variety) is indicated but only tenuously so.



                                           SUMMARY



           $SPY’s VoEx stagnated at the Inhibition Zone throughout the week, only
           to spike further into the Inhibition Zone on Friday. A similar tale for
           $QQQ. These movements were significant enough to register both
           indexes with a VoEx Spikes per the Market Scan.

           The Hedging Environments are unsupportive with a vanna-unstable
           orientation and a negative-leaning outlook for the week a head per the
           Influence Distributions.

           DLP behavior has reduced significantly week-over-week, with near-zero
           prints on $SPY, and concurrent reduction on $QQQ.

           MWGS data suggests that the reduction in gamma squeezes may not be
           “organic” but rather a result of gamma’s inherent distribution rather than
           options flows or new positionings. Should DDS’ handwaving have merit,
           this gives GTM’s interpretation a technically-bullish-but-ready-to-swing-
           the-other-way outlook.

           𝑉𝑉 2 collapse appears to be flattening out without concurrent loss of data
           within the Propagation Zone, which is reminiscent of pre-2022’s 𝑉𝑉 2
           collapse and is suggestive of continued medium-to-long-term downside.

           Overall, technically a BUPO outlook (of the Bullish variety) as per VoEx
           but with a strong side eye and anticipation of a quick reversal.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        11/13/2023
                                           DETAILS




Hello everyone!

This week, along with my our normal ranting about the market, there are some updates about
LDPM, LDPS and a brewing LDPS Robot!
But first – we must acknowledge our past. Last week, the Weekly Chat left off with a tentatively
bullish outlook, and along with this outlook, there were a few events to look out for that might
suggest conditions were changing. This outlook, it seems, was reasonable now but not quite so
easy to maintain throughout the week, as we will see below.
Nonetheless! With $SPY moving a paultry 1.36% while $QQQ moved 2.90% throughout the week,
it seems this outlook ultimately served its purpose well.
A good place to start this week would be a quick review of the aforementioned list of events for
which to look out for as the week progressed. The criteria were mainly based on VoEx’s
behavior: should VoEx continue its migration northward, then all shall be sound and bullish
performance (albeit, unstable bullish performance) shall reign, etc. etc.; however, should VoEx
complete a spike-like-pattern, then to hell with BUPO as it would be time to adopt BUPO1.
In true VoEx fashion and in a bold display of comedic timing, VoEx decided to do neither:




VoEx’s assertion of autonomy coincides with a stagnate price action as well, as can be seen
with the Hedging Heatmaps:




1
    Bearish until Proven otherwise.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      11/13/2023
$SPY (left), seems to have listlessly bobbed within selling pressure while $QQQ shows hinting
that purchasing support helped bolster $QQQ’s end-of-week rebound. This hinting becomes
more of a not-that-quiet-whisper when one looks at the hedging environment from Thursday’s
(2023-11-08) perspective:




This purchasing-support-bounce, however, may not have been without consequence as we will
see below in the new data! But first, let’s not get a head of ourselves.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   11/13/2023
Let’s map out our goals this week: examine if this green week provoked increased instability (it
did), and, if it did (it did), and then try to find evidence for which side the card-house is leaning.
Stagnation is Development

$SPY may have stagnated in the first 4/5ths of the week but ultimately there was activity
sufficient to register and push
$SPY (top) and $QQQ’s (bottom)
VoExes higher.
For the significance of such a
decision, a quote from last week:

                  “
  All-in-all, the early part of the
  week will be pivotal: should
  VoEx fall out of the I.Z., then
  an outlook more congruent
  with VoEx Spike seems
  reasonable, whereas should
  VoEx continue northward, or
  persist within the I.Z., a BUPO
  outlook seems reasonable.
                  “




Well – it would appear we have the answer: things moved northward – we just had to wait a tad
longer than desired to get our answer.
So, until anything changes, such as VoEx Spike out of the Inhibition Zone (and preferably directly
into the Propagation Zone), or VoEx Divergence it would seem that for now, a new era of
instability-provoking price appreciation appears to be awaiting us (read: bull-trap).

Easy-peasy, right? Well – as much as I hate caveats, there is one present in my side.
That is - I would be much more inclined to accept BUPO (of the bull variety) with arms-wide-
open if $QQQ didn’t exceed its T+1 EPR on Friday by a casual 120% and this greater-than-EPR
move was met with a VoEx Spike (as seen via the the Market Scan). This is what, I think, the
French would call une combinaison dangereuse – I’m not sure what it means though, but I have
heard them say it.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           11/13/2023
$SPY’s situation could be described exactly the same (in French again even)2. $SPY’s T+1 EPR
was exceeded by 79%, and also registered a VoEx Spike per the Market Scan.
In other words – it’s not entirely unusual to see a VoEx Spike while in BUPO but it is still a sight
that warrants notice.
In terms of how the market might react or prepare for this bullish performance, we see the first
hurdle in VoEx’s way are the Hedging Environments themselves:




Slightly moving against the notion of an unhindered-bullish-wave as we see selling pressure
located in the immediate proximity of $SPY and $QQQ, along with re-configuration of the
Hedging Environments once more to an unstable-vanna orientation. A combination of which is
poised to offer more selling pressure in the event of a $-/IV+ week.
The Influence Distribution supposes a negative-leaning week, but with a slight touch of right-tail
risk (low probability of a large positive movement).
This tail risk reminds of last week’s foray into looking at how the market responds after greater-
than-EPR moves. This quick adventure into research-land suggested that $SPY’s T+10 range (as
calculated from its Movement to EPR ratio) was ±2.5 - ±3.5%, despite the traditional EPR
suggesting only a ±2.14% move for T+10 (this represents a 15% - 48% larger-than-expected
move for $SPY).
Should these data continue to hold, and given $SPY’s weekly move this week of 1.36%, perhaps
the right tail risk is hinting at an additional ~2% in upwards mobility for the week. Worth noting
that the T+5 EPR for now sits at ±1.42%. Perhaps worth pondering as the week progresses.




2
 Autrement dit, je serais beaucoup plus enclin à accepter BUPO (de la variété Taureau) à bras grands ouverts si
$SPY ne dépassait pas son T+1 EPR d’un simple 79 % et cette plus-que-EPR movement n’était pas accompagné
d’un VoEx Spike (comment vu à la Market Scan). J’en pense que les Americaines l’appelleraient a dangerous
combination – je ne suis pas bien sûr de ce que cela signifie, mais je les ai entendus le dire.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                      11/13/2023
Moving on from the Hedging Environments, let’s check in on our put-selling-friends. Last week,
we languished over their inability to be direct-enough for us (that is, they didn’t foreshadow the
week’s progress with a surge in put-selling but rather kept
things rather moot ).
                                                                                      “
Once again, however, our folly and ignorance presents itself
                                                                 Not the most bullish of prints but certainly
as our put-selling-friends did quite well this week.
                                                                         not an overtly bearish one.
                                                                                      “




                                              With near-zero DLP growth to start the upcoming
                                              week, one can’t help but consider bullish-
                                              inclinations to be relatively minimal for $SPY’s
                                              put-sellers.




As we turn towards $QQQ, a slight breeze
of refreashign commitment can be as a
slight rebound in selling has occurred
going into the week-end – a technically
bullish but, it might be worth considering
any differences in the other, recent
displays of opinion that both indexes put-
sellers have shown.


Thus, perhaps a dose of reality and diminishing optimism for bullish prints is making its way
into our put-selling-friends as they reduce their willingness to sell volatility and whatnot.
Moving from just the puts to all things gamma-related, the MWGS-data is showing an increasly
turbulent underbelly in the market:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       11/13/2023
In prior rantings, it was suggested that, much like me, gamma wasn’t really “doing” “much” or
“contributing” – but recent squiggly lines suggest that this may be, at least for gamma,
tangentially untrue.
To summarize:

                                                                                           “
                                                               In a nut shell [sic], its shaped sort of like the Influence
                                                                Distribution curves but a bit more symmetrical. Now
                                                                – suppose a bunch of stocks are sitting at the peak
                                                                 (in the middle), and are in a gamma squeeze. If the
                                                               price moves (say, things more to the left of the peak),
                                                                  then the overall gamma amount decreases! If this
                                                                 decrease in gamma is a decrease in short gamma,
                                                                    then it would appear on the surface as though
                                                                gamma squeezes have suddenly dried up! But is this
                                                                                      really the case?

                                                                                           “


                                                               The distribution graph noted above
                                                               was this graph (from the Cheat
                                                               Sheet for Gamma, next page):
                                                               And the idea was: what if, say, a
                                                               sudden surge in price moved
                                                               conditions such that the overall
                                                              short gamma present decreased
                                                             simply due to its distribution, rather
                                                            than a change in the options
                                                            environment? Could this potential
                                                            warrant a closer inspection?




After this week’s data, I think it’s reasonable to do so. Thus, let’s consider a few points:
   1) Prior to the sudden drop-off in gamma squeezes, gamma flows in the market were
      negative (GTM [bottom plot] is in the negative prior to the gray line),



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                 11/13/2023
   2) There is a concurrent increase in gamma squeezes with an increase in long-gamma
      flows.
   3) If we look at the price-action leading up to 2023-11-03 (the largest 1-day decline in the
      number of gamma squeezes) since 2023-10-31 (4 days), we get a %-change of 3.94%.
      Yet, if we look at the change in $SPY since 2023-11-03 (5 days), we only get a %-change
      of 1.36%! A 97% difference in “price velocity”’s influence on gamma.
Thus, a gamma-situation involving both time and location (space) seems to have manifested,
and my wand-having suggests it goes like this (let’s assume new options flows have been
minimal):
   1) The market is experiencing a flow of short-gamma (prior to 2023-10-31), and this is
      coinciding with modest growth-rates,
   2) The market experiences a robust movement in price (as indicated by green arrow),
   3) This pushes the gamma distribution in such a way that the gamma squeezes
      “disappear” (but are still present, just the gamma distributions [for the short gamma]
      have been reduced. The blue transparent arrow (left-most arrow) shows the change in
      short gamma amounts with the price increase; as the arrow moves down, so too does
      gamma’s “influence”.),
   4) Since the price appreciation, time has passed, and with it, the curves (gamma
      distributions) have all slid to the left (i.e.: the gold curve has become light blue, and light
      blue become slightly-less-light-blue, and so on, demonstrated with the transparent gray
      arrow). This increases net gamma in the market again:
          a. On some individual stocks, this increase in gamma exposure brought with it short
              gamma; hence the slight increase in gamma squeezes since then,
          b. But for most stocks, this gamma-distribution-migration has brought relative net
              long gamma as evidenced by GTM printing positive values (long gamma flows)
              since     this           price appreciation.
                                                           Slightly convoluted but the logic seem
                                                                     reasonably sound.
                                                                   The consequence? Well – on
                                                                   the surface it suggests that
                                                                   perhaps this decrease in
                                                                   gamma squeezes the market
                                                                   experienced recently isn’t all
                                                                   that organic (i.e.: not a
                                                                   consequence of an increase
                                                                   in     stabilizing structural
                                                                   changes) and that GTM’s
                                                                   positive prints may be due
                                                                   more to the passage of time
                                                                   than to new positions
                                                                   stabilizing the market (by
way of providing long gamma                       flows by way of new positionings).


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          11/13/2023
This is suggested prima facie with the surge in the MWGS-growth line (top graph, gold line)
which shows a sudden rebound in gamma squeeze growth-rate without concurrent changes in
GTM.
In other words: some caution may be needed when interpreting the latest gamma-squeeze
information. A normal reaction to a reduction in gamma squeezes is to develop a more bullish
stance – but this is predicated that the reduction in gamma squeezes is due to stabilizing
forces. Here, I think with the recent larger-than-EPR price moves, VoEx’s behavior, there is
reason to suspect a different cause might be present for this reduction.
The consequence? Keep an eye on the MWGS data s the week progresses – GTM moving
negative quickly would be a point for this theory.

Moving right along to 𝑉𝑉 2, there is growing similarities between the start of 2022 and the end of
2023:




The main similarities being:

   1) The large 𝑉𝑉 2 collapse that occurred, and
   2) Flattening out of the curve without any significant migration of data from within the
      Propagation Zone.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       11/13/2023
This is a similar set-up to 2022, albeit on a seemingly faster timeframe (𝑉𝑉 2’s collapse in 2022
took 5 months (!) to go from its peak of +1 to 0 vs. 2 months for our current collapse).
These data, for me, are sufficient to anticipate medium and longer-term downturn in price and
market performance for the year(?) a head.
So, overall, we have growing evidence for:

   -     A bullish-wave that has shifted not only the market’s prices but also its gamma currents,
         resulting in some notable thoughts:
            o This bull-wave seems to be resting on tenuous grounds as evidenced by VoEx’s
                 response to the recent price appreciations, which are still a tad “spikey”.
            o This tenuous bullish performance also rests on even more tenuous hedging
                 environments, of which $SPY and $QQQ’s are demonstrating renewed vanna-
                 unstable orientations, which, we all know, are quite tenuous.
            o Along with all of this, our put-selling-friends seem to be downsizing their bullish
                 bets for the week(s) a head as evidenced by diminished put-selling week-over-
                 week. A very tenuous spot for a perma-bull.
So, what does this tenuously mean for us? A priori it suggests a BUPO (of the bullish variety)
outlook as VoEx is clear in its northward trajectory, however the data are sufficiently aligned to
keep this bullish run regarded as tenuous rather than persistent.
The name-of-the-game then is to simply ride the wave and wait for VoEx to indicate that
downside should resume.

Happy trading!
Justin
Oh wait! Updates!
A few quick updates on the activities and going-on’s from behind the scenes:
   1) LDPM has been updated!

         I wanted to release LDPM’s update along with a video describing all of the changes but
         the video editing is taking longer than normal. I’m working with a video editor so we are
         ironing out the style and whatnot. The idea is that if I have an editor, then videos will be
         easier to produce, and as such, I will get back into making more of them!

         If you haven’t check out the LDPM updates here. If anything is funky with the update
         process on your end, please don’t hesitate to reach out.

   2) LDPS Beta has been extended a week

         Some new suggestions were made and they were implemented, so I extended the beta
         for a week.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          11/13/2023
           Please give it a go and let me know if there’s anything you would like to see updated /
           changed.

       3) A robot is being formed!

           Yes – that’s right! A DDS Robot / Trigger strategy is being developed for beta testing.
           This robot, ideally, will demonstrate when liquidity levels are supportive to go long or to
           go short, along with the corresponding quantities and whatnot. The goal is to set this up
           to be able to be plugged into a broker and just trade the day away.

           It is based on the robot that I currently use for my own personal use, along with some
           improvements to its user-ability and customizability. The robot utilizes LDPM and LDPS
           for all of its logic.

           I am hoping to have the beta out for Premium Members3 by the end of the week but
           there are still a few bugs to iron out with the re-factor from personal-, to shared-use, and
           thanks to the Pinescript language, this is a task that can only be undertaken in 15-minute
           chunks of time every-other business day before I start crying get frustrated.

       4) Finally, Dashboard updates!

           Yes – that’s right. Work is finally underway again for the next push in Dashboard
           updates. Once I have the final plans in place and a tentative date for completion, I’ll be
           sure to let you guys know.


In the mean time, if there’s anything that you would like to see changed / updated / improved
upon / removed, please let me know! Even if you already have – its always helpful to get a
reminder.


That’s all I have for you this week!


Happy trading (again)!


Justin




3
    That’s you!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            11/13/2023
