                                    Weekly Chat 10/02/2023


                                           Main Points


    -   VoEx remains in the Propagation Zone, however both $SPY and $QQQ appear to be
        progressing along with VoEx Coiling. This pins a near-term bearish outlook with a
        slightly-less near-term bullish outlook.
    -   Hedging Environments remain divided with $SPY seeing purchasing support
        introduced in the event of a $-/IV+ move, while $QQQ sees more selling pressure.
    -   DLP behavior remains highly elevated, however, much like last week, this behavior
        seems somewhat perplexing given the other data prints.
    -   MWGSC data continues to show positive growth and positive GTM prints, indicating
        continued expectation for gamma squeeze growth.
    -   𝑉𝑉 2 is starting to see collapse within the Inhibition Zone while more data clusters into
        the Propagation Zone.
    -   The Inhibition-Propagation ratio demonstrates a 20-day print that has crossed the
        threshold into a PZ-dominated market.
    -   LDPS is showing bearish liquidity on the daily timeframe for $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   Overall, it is a match-up between a notoriously well-timed group of market individuals,
        and some robust bearish data prints.

                                           SUMMARY



           VoEx is demonstrating persistence within the P.Z., a relatively rare feat for
           $SPY and $QQQ. This, however, isn’t without controversy as it continues
           to appear as though a VoEx Coiling event is occurring.

           Instability can also be found within the hedging environments where $SPY
           and $QQQ are at-odds once more. However, there is a “purchasing-route”
           available to the market via a casual $+/IV- path that would give purchasing
           support to $QQQ while maintaining $SPY within gamma neutrality.

           DLP behavior is exceptional, with such prints rarely seen. In investigating
           the last several incidents of similar magnitude, the subsequent market-
           performance demonstrate wholly bullish consequences. However, the
           surrounding data and contexts give pause – much like last week – for the
           veracity of these claims.

           𝑉𝑉 2 is demonstrating collapse within the Inhibiton Zone with more data
           grouping within the PZ. The definitive signs given previously for the start
           of the next market correction.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         10/02/2023
            Overall, a highly contested market that is without a distinct outlook given
            the muddied waters on the more immediate-terms, however, the more this
            instability shows itself, the more confidence is gained in a proximal
            market correction in the more-near-than-probably-expected time horizons.




                                             DETAILS




Hello everyone!
A relatively exciting week, as indicated by $SPY’s glamorous moves of -0.68% and $QQQ’s 0.1%
weekly move.
Last week, we discussed how $QQQ’s selling pressure was balanced against $SPY’s purchasing
support, and its seems this played out quite nicely within the markets, despite our concerns
regarding recent purchasing-support performance:




We can see that the market did a little loopdy-loop throughout the week, ultimately leading to our
near-zero net move.
This week, we have some a few topics to parse through, namely investigating the recent uniquely
unusual DLP activity, some new LDPS updates, and of course, the routine data.
Let’s get started!

The Data!
As usual, let’s start with VoEx:
VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ are both demonstrating persistence within the Propagation Zone – this
brings with it the natural downside expectation.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        10/02/2023
An observation is that the recent flat price-action (and even occasional green day), hasn’t
provoked any substantial instability (VoEx Spikes, rapid movement towards I.Z., etc.).
Another observation might be that the prior remarks about VoEx appearing similar-in-nature to
VoEx Coiling seem to be holding strong as VoEx-daily is tentatively working its way into stability.
The consequence of declaring VoEx Coiling would be a slight pivot towards a near-term bullish
stance (one that typically manifests rather abruptly), in particular with VoEx’s relative proximity to
the Propagation Line.
Thus, one of the main goals this week will be to determine if we can get a leg-up on VoEx Coiling
and its bullish expectations due to some bullish data prints, or if we should continue to brace for
downside as per VoEx’s location (and not “behavior”).




Our first step will be to look at the hedging environments to see which action might be more
“supported”.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           10/02/2023
As with last week, $SPY’s heatmap
demonstrates       continued       purchasing
support in the event of a $-/IV+, along with a
slightly-positive bullish outlook via the
Influence Distribution.
$QQQ’s offers the same outlook as before,
although it seems the market managed to
squeeze $QQQ into gamma neutrality just
before market-close.

Both of these are, ironically, supportive of
VoEx Coiling: should the market see an
organic push for $QQQ into purchasing
support, on $SPY we would also see the
introduction of purchasing support (albeit
much less). In fact, unless IV tanks, $SPY
has a clear path up gamma neutrality via
$+/IV-, which is the exact path that
introduces to $QQQ the aforementioned
purchasing support.
With $SPY’s proximal purchasing support,
Monday’s moves will be particularly telling
for the week ahead.
Moving forwards with the analysis, we come
to the DLPs, which, as we will see, have been
particularly active 1.




1
 Now may be a good time to remember that large amounts of dealer OTM long puts, in the event that they get
pushed ITM while IV is rising drastically is a recipe for a 2020 repeat!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                  10/02/2023
With $SPY-DLP activity remaining rather moot, our friends over in $QQQ-land have seen it fit to
start a fête . With a slight increase in activity, it would appear that someone (or someones)
somewhere (or somewheres) has some rather strong conviction on profiting from either $+ or IV-
(or both!) in the week(s) a head.
Last week, there was expressed concern that the DLP-friends may have been incorrect in their
assessment; is this still the case?
Well – to help answer that, let’s first look at when the last time such DLP behavior was noted;
quickly scanning the data reveals 2 times in which the DLP activity for $QQQ was greater than
150% for the 5-day data, I went a head and colored the graph based on the change in price until
either the next +150% data-print, or until the maximum growth of that particular print.




oooooohh.
Someone has conviction of much the same magnitude as at least an +8% growth in the near
future.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     10/02/2023
Perhaps someone in the market is
already jumping-the-gun on VoEx
Coiling and preparing for a relative
bottom here.
Ordinarily, I would probably find
sufficient reason to pause here and
stake claim that such a showing of
force is sufficient for me to have a
modestly bullish outlook a head (given
our accurate our put-selling friends
usually are), however, there are some
additional data points that provide
some cause-for-pause.

The first is MWGSCs, which show a
persistent positive growth-rate for
gamma squeezes, along with a GTM
that has been steadily growing more
positive (even the revised one is
showing continued expectation for
gamma squeeze growth).
This is a bearish print with some
moderate standing.
 The second data print is from 𝑉𝑉 2 that
shows both continued growth of data
within the Propagation Zone, but also
some behavior that we might be able
to definitively point at and call “collapse” (finally?).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                             10/02/2023
The collapse initiating within the Inhibition Zone, and growing data prints within the Propagation
Zone are both indications that were teased out over the past few months that would indicate a
market-wide downturn was very nearby.
The third data print that contests the put-sellers claims of a $+/IV- future is the relative ratio of
VoExes within the Inhibition and
Propagation Zones, a relatively
new graph that we looked at just
recently. Nonetheless, its pretty
clear that net-PZ markets are
bearish, and that’s exactly the
situation the market seems to be
heading into, with the 20-day
metric having already crossed over
the “threshold”.
In fact, if we look at the last two
dates from above (the two dates
that showed large DLP prints;
~2022-10 and ~2022-02), we see
that those puts were sold in the
exact opposite environment: a
market that was moving towards a
net-IZ environment.
And yet there’s more!



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          10/02/2023
Way back when (Weekly Chat 2023-07-31), I showed you these images:
                                                          These are LDPS2 (Liquidity-Derived Price
                                                          Strength; well, it is now, back then it was LDTS),
                                                          but these graphs back then demonstrated both
                                                          the developing tool, as well as a bullish-
                                                          dominant liquidity within the market.

                                                          However, these same data are not quite that
                                                          bullishly spectacular anymore:




On the left, we see $SPY, and on the right: $QQQ. Both present with newly-formed “Strong Bearish”
liquidity statuses.




You may also notice, that such prints are rather rare for $SPY and $QQQ, and have only really
occurred during large market corrections (2020’s prints), briefly before 2022, and then throughout
2022.

So, in other words, not the most bullish of prints.
Taken together, this is quite the conundrum: typically such robust DLP prints would almost
certainly be sufficient in truthy-ness that a bullish outlook would be easy to adopt – even if it is a
short-lived one; the put-sellers are rather good at what they do (sell puts).
But, we saw last week that their performance was okay – things didn’t go down (much), that’s for
sure, but things didn’t quite go up like typically associated with such behavior.
Additionally, much like last week, this week presents with continued bearish prints that work
against this bullish outlook – could it be that the put-sellers are simply “doubling-down” on their
positions?


2
 The quick take-away from LDPS is that it’s a transformed version of LDPM that helps “color-code” the bars (in the
case, on the daily interval) depending on their liquidity.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                      10/02/2023
If this is the case, and there was, somewhere, sufficient reason to double-down, why hasn’t $SPY
joined in? $SPY had all week to start selling puts – yet it doesn’t appear as though the $SPY crowd
is at-all interested.

Overall, I think it is still prudent to bet on a medium-term decline but a modest threat exists for a
near-term rapid appreciation – it might be that the put-sellers know something we don’t.
But then again, it might be that we know something they don’t.
So, for the week ahead, I’ll plan to stay nimble and capture profits where possible, but I won’t fret
too much over my short positions (for now), should the week a head choose a more northward
trajectory.
I’ll keep an eye on the hedging environments to see if a VoEx-Coiling-supportive-trajectory forms,
and from there, an eye on VoEx – if the VoEx Coiling looks like it is going to complete (keeps
spiking its way northward), I’ll position for some quick long profits.
Otherwise – it might be time to sit back and watch.

Happy trading!
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          10/02/2023
