                                         Weekly Chat 2025-10-20


                                                 Main Points



       -   VoEx-trend for $SPY, $QQQ have entered P.Z., followed closely by $VTI, and $VOO.
       -   Gamma-hedging environments showcase local gamma-neutrality with spot-down
           sparse purchasing support and spot-up selling pressure.
       -   Gamma-squeeze data show a substantial reduction in GS growth on Friday despite
           an overall week-long growth spurt. pMWGS data foretell continued albeit slower
           growth.
       -   LT/LS investigation into #ES futures suggests LT channel confinement due to multi-
           timeframe LT resistances.
       -   Overall, downside is still prudent but the market’s current structural composition
           suggests high likelihood of a stalled market in the week ahead.

                                                  SUMMARY


           Last week, the general consensus (n=1) was that the market would go down as evidenced
           by VoEx-daily within the P.Z., and the gamma-hedging heatmap indicating that $+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +
           would be necessary to avoid any of the “danger zones”. The week that followed (also last
           week) found that to not be the case: the market moved up-and-to-the-right against all odds.

           The data currently tell of continued downside expectations (VoEx-daily & VoEx-proper
           being within the P.Z. on $SPY and $QQQ, with $VOO and $VTI in hot pursuit).

           In the immediate term, this is expected to be met with a restrictive gamma-hedging
           environment that looks poised to settle and keep the market within the pre-formed gamma-
           neutral zone it currently inhabits.

           MWGS data suggest a massive decrease in GS counts occurred on Friday, but a peek at
           the relative changes in OI count and the change in net gamma throughout the market
           suggests this is a mechanical response to the market-wide $~, 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − that occurred on Friday.
           The predictive MWGS data still showcase expectations of GS growth, despite a slower
           velocity thereof.

           A LS/LT investigation shows near-term bull-trap-like morphologies on the 90-, and 144-
           minute with compact LT resistances therein as well. The longer-timeframes also show
           weakness: the 987-minute is in a bear-trap with multiple recent failed attempts to jump
           back over L5 resistance, while the weekly view paints a picture of lethargy and apathy.

           Overall, the outlook is still downside but the market appears to be in a position of
           benefitting from a flat week and so that appears to be the most reasonable outlook (with
           the overall expectation that the stall will resolve to the downside).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                 for the week of                       2025-10-20 to 2025-10-24
                                              DETAILS




Last week we left off with notions of a spot-down and likely IV-up futures. This was largely
predicated on hand-waving of the highest order, along with VoEx in the Propagation Zone, and the
inherent difficulty expected for the market by-way of achieving gamma-neutrality in a [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + ]
manner.
In response, the market mocks our mortal selves, as we can see here in the gamma hedging
heatmaps below:




What a hoot! The market did indeed extend up-and-to-the-right until Friday where things (read: IV)
corrected. An unexpected but exciting twist to be sure! It is not unusual for the market to bend
backwards to reach gamma neutrality but it does suggest that hedging is active and predominant,
which itself suggests that this week was rather “algorithmic” and perhaps even hands-off from
the market-at-large.
But before we get too hypotheretical, let’s re-frame our goal for the week ahead and progress
thusly.
Goal: Is downside still expected? If not, why?

Moving Thusly
Starting as usual with VoEx we find:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-10-20 to 2025-10-24
Exciting orientations for VoEx! In our last look through these indexes it was remarked that while
VoEx-daily had fallen into disrepair (read: Propagation Zone) VoEx-proper was still holdin’ on.
Now, we can see, this is largely not the case.
VoEx-proper for $SPY and $QQQ have dove (diven?) into the P.Z. while $VTI’s VoEx is nearing
customs and $VOO not too far behind.

This does two things: it re-affirms downside in the near-term (VoEx-dailys are in the PZ) and re-
affirms that longer-term downside may be in the works – more so than the short-term downside-
into-quick-recovery outlook is currently being worked upon. (Spoiler: Take note of VoEx-daily
however – notice for all four views its somewhat stalled in its descent!).
In checking with the gamma-hedging environments1 for near-term response to anticipated price
movement (in this case: down), we find:




1
    Tad update to the heatmaps to help the distribution plots shows their data more consistently!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                    for the week of                    2025-10-20 to 2025-10-24
For $SPY and $QQQ (and $VOO & $VTI [not
shown]) the hedging environments are
technically stable but in a similar way to
how a helicopter or me off my meds is
“stable”. In closer inspection we see diffuse
and weak (see how light the blue is)
purchasing support while a ceiling of selling
pressure hangs over-top.
Frustratingly neither supportive nor
inhibitive, well, inhibitive starting about
$675-ish as the selling pressure kicks in. It’s
difficult to see 2 but the market is currently
nestled within a gamma-neutral zone that
shows invariability to IV change; but despite
being a deflating finding for those looking
for a spur to IV+ for the week ahead, it also
suggests the market’s gamma-hedging
winds will likely be minimal in the week
ahead as neutrality is already largely
present. Should the market be in the same
state as last week (namely: minimally active
and mainly influenced by said gamma-
hedging winds), this begets a frustratingly
flat week ahead.




2
  I’m still working on how to get the colors to be a bit more vibrant while keeping their relationship intact! Its
surprisingly tricky as I want to maintain the relative strength of the coloring between purchasing and selling pressure
while also being able to, well, see it for when one is significantly more dominant than the other.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                    for the week of                     2025-10-20 to 2025-10-24
Moving along from gamma-hedging to gamma squeezes, let’s check on the gamma squeeze
data:
The week saw decent growth, barring Friday’s rapid reduction. Using Thursday as the benchmark,
we find that the 20-day %-change was 32%! This number decreased by Friday, however, to -4.0%,
a decrease in and of itself of 30%.
In checking with the predictive data to see if this is a trend that will keep on goin’ or if it is just a
structural product of $+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − mechanics on gamma: a decrease in short gamma due to 𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼 − while
$+ shifts the distributions some. To avoid doing math, I drew a picture of this dynamic reflecting
our present environment3:




In this scenario, it tells us that the structural positioning of options hasn’t changed (i.e.: the same
options layouts that were creating the aforementioned gamma squeezes prior to Friday) are still
there but rather gamma-land has simply shifted in favor due to a relative increase in long gamma,
which for all intents and purposes reads as “systemic gamma squeeze destruction”.
The difference here being that whereas a structural change in the options positioning and layouts
themselves would be resistant to reversions, when conditions are structurally the same and only
mechanically different, any “return to status quo” (i.e.: $− and 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + (especially so)) will likely see
the process simply reverse, and the “lost” gamma squeezes re-emerge.
This theory is further supported by some numbers (I tried to shield you but I have failed): net
gamma exposure for the top 50-traded stocks (per Friday) rose an average of 65% (from


3
 Gamma distribution from Cheat Sheet: Gamma used and adjusted to fit current environment. $+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − works to
“flatten and expand” gamma distributions with particular emphasis on the more near-term dated options.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                 for the week of                    2025-10-20 to 2025-10-24
Thursday) while the net change in OI for those same stocks from Thursday to Friday only changed
16%! That’s quite the difference.
Next, we should probably check on the predictive market-wide gamma squeeze models to see
what they say: do they anticipate continued growth (i.e.: the current reduction is more likely a
structural side-effect) or are they also detecting a decrease in anticipated gamma flowing into
the market?

On the right we see such
data and it is: mixed.
For the PGC (purple line;
Predictive Growth Curve)
the consensus is that the
breaks       have        been
“slammed” on GS growth
(the purple line is below
zero again) while the
predictive count curve
(PCC) is still positive.

This tells us that the
anticipated growth rate of
GS has decreased (and is
reversing some) but the propellent that has been already spent in moving GS’ into the market is
still net positive (for the physics nerds: acceleration is slightly negative but velocity is still
positive!).
Overall, the gamma-squeeze data tells us that the gamma environment is cooling off some but
there is reasonable concern it may be due only to mechanical changes and the structural
weaknesses that predisposed the market to the GS growth initially are still present.

So, so far, the data are painting an outlook of continued downside in general but in practical terms,
there is growing evidence that this will manifest itself as a “flat and boring week” as the gamma-
hedging heatmaps find $SPY and $QQQ already within gamma neutrality and gamma squeeze
have decreased. In conjunction, should such a boring-and-flat-week occur, then IV will have little
room to increase, and thus, little room to unwind the mechanically-long-gamma set-up currently
existing in the market which will only help bolster the “restrictive” effects of gamma (purchasing
support spot-down and selling pressure spot-up).
This is also a good time to remind you, my dear reader, of the spoiler from prior: VoEx-daily has
stalled! On its own, not too much of a finding, but taken in conjunction with the gamma-squeeze
data, it appears that a “annoying and flat” week might be headed our way so long as IV can
continue to decrease overall (or at least, not increase).
Let’s take this outlook in hand and visit LS/LT to see what they say:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2025-10-20 to 2025-10-24
In general: I think these data are in agreement regarding a flat week.
The set-up: we have a bear-trap on the 90-minute which is prime real-estate for repeated attempts
to over-take LT support only to be rejected which sets the stage for confinement within LT levels.
On the 144-minute (top-right) there is bearish outlooks and hefty spot-up pressure noted.

The 987-minute (bottom-left) shows bearish prints during a bear-trap with already two failed
attempts to over-take L5.
And lastly, on the 1-Week (bottom-right) we have bullish liquidity that still needs L5 support!
Overall, these data are mixed but I think do a reasonable job of suggesting a stalled market is
forming – in other words: downside is still expected but the mechanics of the market suggest
that next week will be filled with maintain gamma neutrality and keeping IV from creeping up. This
is evidenced by VoEx-daily stalling, gamma-hedging environments showcasing a present gamma-
neutral environment, gamma-distribution dynamics, as well as appreciable LT resistances noted
on the 90-, 144-, and 987-minute with lack of “robust” strength found on the 1-week LS/LT view.
The data then suggest that the resolution of the stall will still be towards the downside; this is
mainly evidenced by VoEx-trend being within the Propagation Zone and the PCC data printing
positive values still.
Overall, the week ahead seems filled with frustratingly neutral price-action while IV is widdled
lower with persistent resolution-risk towards the downside.
Happy Trading,
Justin



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2025-10-20 to 2025-10-24
