                                   Weekly Chat 12/04/2023


                                        Main Points


   -   VoEx remains in Bullish-until-proven-otherwise (BUPO).
   -   Hedging environments are vanna-unstable with light selling pressure throughout, and
       negative influence distributions.
   -   Put-selling remains near-zero for both $SPY and $QQQ but is technically positive.
   -   MWGS-data suggests growing growth-rates of gamma squeezes can be expected in
       the future as the market bottoms out at <1,000 gamma squeezes.
   -   𝑉𝑉 2 has suddenly reversed course with highly-erratic VoExes showing up throughout
       the market within the Inhibition Zone.
   -   𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂, BUPO (of the bullish variety), until proven otherwise.



                                          SUMMARY



           VoExes for $SPY and $QQQ remain in the Inhibition Zone, indicative of
           BUPO (of the Bullish variety), however the morphology is suggestive of a
           budding Divergence that will be key to watch in the upcoming week(s).

           Put-selling remains at a near-zero amount for $SPY and $QQQ for the
           week a head, indicating continued lethargy on behalf of the put-sellers.

           The Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data is showing accelerating
           current growth rates with anticipation of increased acceleration in the
           future due to GTM’s data which is suggesting an increase in net-short
           gamma flowing towards the market.

           𝑉𝑉 2 defies expectations once more but this time in a not-so-fun way as it
           has reversed course on both of its main fronts: data are rapidly re-
           appearing within the Inhibition Zone as the former collapse witnessed
           has all-but been erased.

           The Inhibition-Propagation Ratio (IRP) shows a net-Inhibition market,
           marking a rather quick reversal of prevailing trends from earlier in the
           month.

           Overall, per VoEx BUPO (of the bullish.. etc. etc.) but conditions look to
           be deteriorating for continued upwards acceleration.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      12/04/2023
                                           DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, our short Weekly Chat (let’s combine last week’s chat and the week prior’s chat into
some homunculus Weekly Chat for convenience) left off with the idea that perhaps, just
perhaps, BUPO (of the Bullish variety), should reign supreme in our collective consciousness.
Well, last week, this worked out relatively well, and overall (since 2023-11-17), $SPY has moved
+1.84%, and $QQQ +1.01%. Not the wildest of movements, but bullish nonetheless.
In fact, we can see this not-the-wildest-of-movements-but-bullish-nonetheless price-action from
the heatmaps from the last 1.5 week(s):




Nothing to write home about.
Thus, this week, we will conjecture some as to if there is anything to write home about for next
week, or if we should resign ourselves to the sweet embrace of VoEx BUPO (of the Bullish
Variety) evermore.
From there, let’s do a quick look at some goings’-on’s under the surface.
Let’s dig in!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     12/04/2023
Digging
Starting as usual with VoEx, we can see that our interpretation is relatively straightforward: VoEx
is still within the Inhibition Zone, and thus, things are BUPO (of the Bullish Variety).
Some concern can be given regarding VoEx’s “collapse” of sorts over the past week, but since it
doesn’t quite pass the eye-ball test for VoEx Divergence1, BUPO is maintained.

However, the discerning side-
eye towards VoEx grows in
magnitude.

                ---
Rant time! Well, not a rant, but
a reminder.
Anyone remember how I’m
always like “Don’t anticipate
data” blahblah?
Well, I did. I was warned but I
did it anyway and lost for it.

When VoEx fell slightly on
2023-11-29, I was convinced
that was the start of a true
VoEx migration out of the
Inhibition Zone! So, I loaded
up on vega and short delta,
and …
Lost.
The lesson?
Never anticipate where the
data may go!
                ---
Thus, with BUPO maintained, let’s sift through the rest of the data to see if we can ball-park how
long, or how robust, this BUPO might just be.
The first step for the more imminent time-table, is the Hedging Environments:




1
  VoEx Divergence would be where VoEx is starting to migrate out of the Inhibition Zone, while the price continues
to appreciate. Since the price, as of right now, seems to have “stalled” more-or-less, rather than “continue to
appreciate”, its hard to consider it true VoEx Divergence.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                     12/04/2023
Here, there are two important observations:

    1) The orientations are in a vanna-unstable configuration2,
    2) Influence Distributions indicate a net-negative outlook for the week a head (peak is in the
       light red / red zones),
    3) Selling pressure is weak overall.
The overall takeaway is that the hedging environment does not seem poised to over any support
in the event of a $-/IV+ market-week, but on the other hand, it is also not poised to offer much
resistance to a $+/IV- week.
Thus, mostly moot for now.

Moving onwards to our put-selling-friends for some well-deserved guidance, we are, once again,
met with tepidity:




If you lean in (please do), and squint (please do) you’ll notice a small smudge that ~technically~
is positive dealer-long-put growth for both $SPY and $QQQ.


2
  Vanna Orientation is one in which IV is the main controlling force in “deciding” if hedging is purchasing or selling.
That is, if a heatmap shows purchasing to the left or right and selling to the right or left, rather than above or
below (for both) each other, then vanna is becoming “dominant”. Vanna-Unstable is one in which selling is
introduced if IV increases (IV+).

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                          12/04/2023
The question is, dear reader (please answer), is this sufficient performance to invoke bullish
thoughts?
For me? Not so much.
Until the put-sellers come out with vigor
(such as like 2023-10-23 for $SPY or
around 2023-09 for $QQQ), I will take
their luke-warm anticipations and adopt
them as my own.
Moving from tepidation to trepidation,
we come across the Market-Wide
Gamma Squeeze data.
From the top graph, we can see the
growth-trend (black line) is pointed
northwards, suggesting that the growth-
rate (gold line) is northward bound as
well, threatening us with positivity.
GTM is starting to print positive values –
indicative (with this version) of incoming
short-gamma into the market.
We see below, that this bearish GTM
print is shared with the newer version.
The 5-, and 10-day running GTM values
have become negative – indicative of
incoming negative gamma.




                                                                Taken together, these are
                                                                relatively   bearish    prints:
                                                                current growth rates are
                                                                becoming more positive, and
                                                                GTMs are suggesting future
                                                                growth will accelerate.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    12/04/2023
Thus, it would seem that BUPO (of the Bullish variety) is indeed still indicated, but evermore the
data are pointing towards a dissolution of the B and resolution of the O: put sellers aren’t really
selling puts, and the gamma undercurrents are turning negative.
If one were to try to contextualize this market movements in boarder terms, one might
investigate 𝑉𝑉 2. So, let’s do that now.




You’ll remember from long-ago that 𝑉𝑉 2 was monitored for insight into an up-coming “market
correction”. The idea was that two things were to occur prior to the market correction:
   1) Data would migrate towards the Propagation Zone (bottom panel), and
   2) The data would “collapse” (referred to as 𝑉𝑉 2 Collapse; mostly monitored via the black
      trend line).
We can see this is indeed what happened starting and around 2023-09 and 2023-10. From there,
there were two outcomes anticipated:
   1) The data would “flatten out”, and:
   2) Either:
          a. Data would start migrating into stability and out of the Propagation Zone, or
          b. Data would “stagnate” inside of the Propagation Zone.
Essentially, the data were to either behave as they did in 2020 (choice 2.a.) or in 2022 (choice
2.b.) wherein the market would correct and recover or grind down for awhile, respectively.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        12/04/2023
What one of these choices wasn’t was a spontaneous resurgence towards the Inhibition Zone,
which is what we see in our version of reality.
We can visualize this spontaneous movement of Inhibition-bound VoExes a tad clearer if we
look at the Inhibition-Propagation Ratio (IPR) which shows the relative amounts of stocks with
their VoExes in the Inhibition Zone as compared to the Propagation Zone:




The last time we saw this graph was in 2023-10-16’s Weekly Chat wherein it was pointed out
that the 60-day running average of the IPR had breeched into net-Propagation territory, upon
which I suggested that the 120 was surely to follow3.
Naturally the market did not feel obligated to follow my lesson-plan, and with that, we can see
the market experienced a rather abrupt re-direction of VoExes throughout the market, bringing
all IPRs back into net-Inhibition Zone status.
Or in other words: a market-wide BUPO.

(of the Bullish variety).

Thus, what does this mean for our interpretation of 𝑉𝑉 2? Well, it would seem there’s a lot of high-
energy VoExes in the Inhibition Zone (the dots extend upwards to +1 on the top panel of 𝑉𝑉 2).
At the risk of sounding like a broken record, this is unstable.


3
    See Weekly Chat 2023-12-04 Page 3§4-10

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         12/04/2023
Overall, growing instability in the market but for now this instability is pointed upwards.
Until VoEx decides to engage in a VoEx Spike (downwards), or Divergence that leaves the
Inhibition Zone, BUPO (of the Bullish variety) is the most prudent outlook.
Below the surface of this BUPO, however, there is evidence of rumblings: puts aren’t being sold;
GTM (of both varieties) is showing growing gamma-squeeze gamma movement towards the
market; 𝑉𝑉 2 isn’t following the ascribed path and is showing high-energy, erratic VoExes
dominating within the Inhibition Zone; and last the IPR’s erratic movements over the past month
is relatively uncommon.
So all-in-all, the short-term plan is to benefit from BUPO with the medium-, and longer-term plans
still to be aimed at preparing for the resolution of this market-wide instability.

Happy Trading!


Justin


P.S.
So, what’s been going on behind the scenes?
A quick update:
   -     LDPS is going to be released back to the wild 2024-01-05! All Premium Members will get
         access to LDPS.
   -     The LDPS Robot is chugging along – if you are having any problems setting anything up,
         please don’t hesitate to reach out. If you find a bug please don’t hesitate to reach out.
   -     The LDPM Primer is being re-written.
   -     An LDPS Primer is being written.
   -     An LDPS YT Video is being filmed.
   -     An LDPM YT Video was filmed and uploaded (here)
   -     Initial stages of Dashboard updates undertaken.


So that’s about it: mainly a lot of focus has been on LDPM/LDPS/LAT [the Bot] and the auxiliary
components to those two things. As things are progressing, however, I have started to dip my
toes in the next phase of Data Dashboard improvements.
If you have anything that you would like to see added, please don’t hesitate to let me know!


Justin (again)




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          12/04/2023
