                                 Weekly Chat 2024-11-04


                                        Main Points



    -   VoEx-daily has moved decisively into the Propagation Zone, heralding downside
        expectations.
    -   Hedging environments are mixed with very local selling pressure located just-spot-
        down.
    -   Gamma squeezes have increased and GTM is printing negative values.
    -   ES shows bearish liquidity with a forming bear-trap.
    -   Overall, expectations are for maintained: near-term downside.



                                        SUMMARY



          This week brought its first nice showing of bearish activities. In
          conjunction, VoEx-daily has moved into the Propagation Zone on $SPY
          and $QQQ; this brings with it the usual downside imminence.

          The heatmaps demonstrate conditions are thinly separated from a void of
          selling pressure.

          Put-selling, renown last week for its spritely nature, is now known this
          week for its subsidence instead; a move that heightens the downside
          expectations.

          Market-Wide gamma squeeze (MWGS) data is showing a growth in
          gamma squeezes along with persistently negative GTM – signs of both
          local and extended instability.

          Overall, the expectations are maintained from last week: downside with a
          reasonable target of $6,000 for ES.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   11/04/2024
                                              DETAILS




Hello every-body!
Last week, we sounded the alarm on bearish inclinations, and, despite our lamenting as to the
inherent lack of desire for the market to adhere to our desires last week, it seems the market
actually does have said desire. This can be visualized in the following way:     but it is likely
easier to express (and interpret) the following: $SPY moved -1.38% while $QQQ moved -1.59%.
Not quite large enough moves to bust out the math, just yet, as these are well-housed within the
expected-price-range of $SPY ±1.47 and $QQQ’s expectation of ±1.95% - but - soon perhaps.
Looking at the movements throughout the week on the heatmaps, we see:




Quite the drawdown from $QQQ for the week! It seems $QQQ’s early-week IV-downside brought
conditions into selling pressure, dropping the market down some.
Of curious note, however, is the difference in IV performance throughout the week; whereas both
ended with IV having increased, we can see that $QQQ saw IV- at the start of the week to a larger
degree than $SPY did! We’ll add “check LDPM-Vol between $SPY and $QQQ” to our list of data to
investigate.
So, nothing to write home about – but let’s see if we can’t peek into the future to see if we should
prep the stationary for next week.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         11/04/2024
Mes chers parents1:
Getting started with VoEx, as usual, we see danger zone!




With VoEx-daily within the Propagation Zone, and VoEx looking to follow suit, these data present
with a clear picture of downside.
The longevity of this downside is still in the near-term given VoEx’s persistence within Stability,
but a close eye will be set forth to see if we have to extend this outlook.

Thus, downside it is!
How might the hedging environments respond to downside?




Poised to offer reasonable purchasing support in so long as price and IV maintain a stable
relationship whereby IV moves significantly more to the right than price moves to the down.

Otherwise, both indexes are in a very tricky spot if they should fall in price more than rise in IV due
to the endless selling pressure that could impose.
Thus, in either case, the expectation for me is a short-lived episode of purchasing support
followed by some hearty downside.


1
    Just warming up the ol’ writing hand.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            11/04/2024
Additionally, our put-selling friends seem to have reduced their activities significantly on $QQQ,
as we can see below:




It is not often that our friends mis-timed put-selling! Nonetheless, the continued increase in DLP
activity continues to abate in the presence of downside; not the most hopeful of findings2!

Thus, with VoEx in the P.Z., the hedging environments offering a scary view, and put-selling
abating, things do look as though we might have something to write home about next week!

Let’s check in with the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data to see how things are shaping up:
                                                 The average over the last 5 days increased 9% week-over-
                                                 week. This comes with a continued negative GTM and a
                                                 rapidly growing Gamma-Squeeze growth rate (top graph,
                                                 blue line), which is now well into positive territory.

                                                 This brings with it additional downside concerns: with
                                                 GTM printing negative values, this suggests that there is
                                                 more negative gamma squeeze en bound to the market
                                                 (which is a future-bearish sign), and the fact the current
                                                 gamma squeeze growth is positive is present bearish
                                                 findings!

                                                 This emphases the importance of keeping an eye on VoEx
                                                 to ensure it doesn’t fall out of stability in the next few
                                                 weeks.




Moving right along, let’s check out ES with LDPS on aggressive:



2
    One would think that conviction would predispose increasing put-selling with $- and IV+.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                 11/04/2024
What a remarkably frustrating indicator I’ve created! Notice how LDPM-144 (neon blue) has finally
overtaken its LDPM-377 friend just in time for bearish LDPS. So, now, we can’t even have a mixed-
but-mostly-bearish outlook cause technically we are now in Bear Trap territory!
So, downside is likely still, with LDPM-610 showing a reasonable floor now at $5.6k still – and
that feels reasonable.


So – bearish through and around with expectations of a dip to ~$5.6k on ES followed by
resumption of normal programming and activities.
Happy Trading!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      11/04/2024
