                                    Weekly Chat 2025-03-17


                                          Main Points



    -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ remain within the Propagation Zone.
    -   Hedging environments show case a vanna orientation with local and immediate selling
        pressure on $SPY.
    -   Put-selling has reduced to near-zero levels for both $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   Market-wide gamma squeeze data showcase a small stall in growth and a positive
        GTM.
    -   VoEx Variance distributions suggest continued migration into the P.Z.
    -   LDPM/S showcase a potential floor but one with a bid undergoing conversion to an ask.
    -   Overall, downside seems prudent with minimal risk of a bull-trap forming.



                                           SUMMARY



          So far, conditions have remained bearish throughout the market despite
          the end-of-week bounce.

          VoEx remains within the P.Z. for both indexes while VoEx-daily reacted to
          the price appreciation with the start of a spike. Suggestive that instability
          is located on the up-side. This brings a minimal risk of a bull-trap into view.

          Hedging environments find themselves with selling pressure in a spot-
          down, IV-up manner; much the same orientation as we’ve seen in prior
          weeks.

          The MWGS data show a small reduction in GS counts, a persistently
          positive growth curve and a positive GTM. Supportive data for a bounce
          but hand-wavingly insufficient in magnitude to turn the tides.

          VoEx distributions showcase a market moving evermore into the P.Z.

          Taken together, the market still finds itself inundated with bearish data
          and so thus is the expectation.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of                2025-03-17 to 2025-03-21
                                           DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Another exciting week under our belts with the markets moving majestically mit $SPY moving -
2.28% and $QQQ moving -2.47% week-over-week. However, we can see in the hedging heatmaps
below that these W-o-W moves are out wow’d by the Wee-week-on-week moves (i.e.: how low the
market got during the mini-week of Monday through Thursday), which showcase wajestic moves
for $SPY of -4.25% and for $QQQ, -4.76%!
These moves can be seen below in the heatmaps:




Since these are quite large numbers, let’s utilize our handy-dandy notebook-table of EPR
assessment:

 Symbol            Anticipated Move Realized Move        Ratio (Real / Ant.) %-magnitude Dif.
                   (±%) (T+4 | T+5) (%) (T+4 | T+5)      (T+4 | T+5)         (T+4 | T+5)

 $SPY                 1.97 | 2.21        4.25| 2.28        2.15| 1.03        73.31 | 03.11

 $QQQ                 2.56 | 2.86        4.76| 2.47        1.85| 1.57        32.20 | 14.63



As history repeats itself, $SPY and $QQQ once-more found themselves ~doubling their respective
moves as compared to the market’s expectations by Friday, only to have a fair amount of mean-
reversion “happen” whereby the market moved back into EPR by week’s end.
Curiously, this suggests that the spectre of mean reversion may be quite sated for the week
ahead, and so, whereas we should acknowledge its presence, the risk of market-possession
seems low, given its recent activities (should spectres be fatigable).



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat         for the week of             2025-03-17 to 2025-03-21
In addition to keeping mean reversion in mind, given our close proximity to our earlier-established
downside targets, additional focus may be spent on keeping an eye out for any sneaking bull traps
or reversals lurking around.
So, with our plate quite full, let’s get started!
You can’t eat the free meals.
Starting with usual with VoEx:




Starting with VoEx, we see VoEx-daily for $SPY and $QQQ have started a rapid migration out of
the Propagation Zone, suggesting a heightened risk for a bull-trap forming. In addition, hawkening
back to our previous discussions regarding `stability being located on the downside`1,
investigating the price-action associated with the recent VoEx-daily spiking suggests this may be
the case (i.e.: stability is located on the downside). The consequence of this is that any upside
can be expected to be rapid, relatively large, but ultimately a bull-trap (consider $SPY’s VoEx-daily
from 2023-08 to 2023-09).

For the immediacy, this gives us a continued medium-, to long-term bearish outlooks, but there
does seem to be a growing space for a bull-trap. Let’s check on our hedging environments to see
if a bull-run would be supported or hindered:




1
    Weekly Chat 2025-03-03.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat               for the week of            2025-03-17 to 2025-03-21
Aggressively both!

The hedging environments are not well but with respect to facilitating a bullish-run, we find $SPY
and $QQQ possess the necessary components to facilitate this: purchasing support in the
[$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] direction.
Good news but in context concerning; this facilitation of a bull run seems to come at the cost of
more immediate and local selling pressure for $SPY and $QQQ which propagates in the [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + ]
direction. For $SPY, this potential seems eventual as the selling pressure has already consumed
its current location, but $QQQ, perhaps thanks to Friday’s spectre, finds itself surrounded by
purchasing support.
Although it would seem that the hedging environments would be supportive of a ramp in price, it
does not seem as though they are wholly prepared to be the provocateur, in a sense.
In continued pursuit of odds, let’s see how our put-selling friends have assessed the situation; did
they find Friday’s rally a convincing foundation for put-profits?




Nope! It would seem they did not.
$SPY’s put-selling remains regressive while $QQQ’s languished existence (with regards to its put-
selling) has finally withered to zero. There does not seem to be much hope or expectation for
profits in the [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] direction.
So, whereas VoEx-daily has demonstrated greater-than-expected increase in instability by way of
Spiking to minimal price recovery which is suggestive that a run-away bullish process is starting
(i.e.: a bull trap), and whereas the hedging environments are technically supportive of this
potential, it would seem that when peeking in on if there is any noteworthy market-preparations
for this potential, we find an empty auditorium.
Moving to the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data, we find a market inundated with
gamma-squeezes along with a slight reprieve in the Gamma Squeeze growth’s acceleration:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2025-03-17 to 2025-03-21
Growth over the past month of
gamma-squeezes has reached 20%,
whereas over the past 2-weeks,
growth has slowed to ~2%, with the
5-day counts showing a decrease of
6%.
These changes are optimistic for a
bullish future, but despite the true
growth rates minimizing, we can see
that, other than on Friday, the growth-
curve remains quite elevated.
Momentum would suggest continued
upwards mobility until a more
pronounced, and solidified showing
of a decreasing growth rate was
seen.

The likelihood of these grows slightly
as we observe the long-gamma
flowing towards the market by-way of
GTM. Although minimal for now, it
certainly isn’t negative.

And so, taken together, these data
seem to be a luke-warm lake sitting
within a sun-melted spot of a glacier.

That’s to say – worth monitoring but
for now, likely to freeze back over.
Keeping with the zoomed-out view, we can check back in on the VoEx Variance distributions, to
see in which direction the market is swaying, and in doing so, we find things are still migrating
towards the Propagation Zone.

To highlight this, I put a highlighted box around an area of the left-tail to help showcase the
population growth of VoExes within the Propagation Zone:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of            2025-03-17 to 2025-03-21
                                                                   The top graph is last week’s
                                                                   view, and the bottom graph is
                                                                   this week’s view, with the box
                                                                   showcasing the growth of the
                                                                   density of VoExes within the
                                                                   Propagation Zone throughout
                                                                   the market.
                                                                   In other words, things are still
                                                                   sliding downhill!
                                                                   The bullish showing of data
                                                                   would be the opposite, or at
                                                                   least, the last of continued
                                                                   migration but rather a pause
                                                                   as the market “stabilizes”,
                                                                   which      would      eventually
                                                                   manifest as a `stretching` of
                                                                   the distributions back towards
                                                                   stability (much like how things
                                                                   are `stretching` towards the
                                                                   P.Z. currently).
                                                                   Taken together, this paints a
                                                                   picture of continued market-
                                                                   wide downside.




With bearish ideations continued, let’s look at ES and NQ futures on the 987-minute and 1-Week
intervals to see if there are any insights to be had.
Note! This version of LDPM and LDPS are modified with an upgrade! You’ll be able to tell if ever it
is the modified LDPM/S as it will be labeled with “-copy”. You may find some differences between
your versions and this for the time-being as I test it out.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-03-17 to 2025-03-21
Note II: LDPM-copy-L1 (Pink) has been converted to LDPM-987 from LDPM-8.




On the right, we see minimal evidence of an outreached, supportive eager bid moving under the
price, whereas on the left (for the Weekly intervals) we see ES experiencing the apparent start of
an Aggressive Ask Cascade, while NQ has bounced off of a supportive LDPM-6 (which,
coincidentally, the rising LDPM-copy-L6 of ES is also being rested upon!).
The support seen on the Weekly interval via the organic bids located at LDPM-copy-L6 for both
ES and NQ is likely helping spur the bounce and thus will likely be the data to watch for early signs
of a paradigm shift: either liquidity becomes bullish as the organic bid can ingest the ask or we
see the organic bid retreat and convert from a floor to a ceiling!

And so, it seems that for now, there is minimal expectation for a bullish reverse, a minor
expectation for a bullish bounce, and a full expectation of continued downside.
Happy trading!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-03-17 to 2025-03-21
