                                   Weekly Chat 01/19/2024


                                        Main Points


      -   VoEx has moved back into the I.Z. on $SPY and $QQQ, indicating another round of
          Bulish-until-proven-otherwise.
      -   Hedging Heatmaps remain in a vanna-unstable orientation with no purchasing
          support nearby.
      -   DLP behavior shows an increase in activity.
      -   MWGS data show continued growth of GS’s along with bearish GTM prints.
      -   VoEx suggests BUPO (of the Bullish variety) but greater-than-normal caution exists
          regarding the longevity of this bullish expectation exists.



                                          SUMMARY



          VoEx has exited its stalled-state, and has moved into the Inhibition Zone
          on $QQQ and $SPY. On one hand, this is exciting for another round of
          BUPO (of the Bullish variety) but on the other hand, the increase in
          VoEx’s erratic behavior continues to point towards a bull-trap more than
          a bull-market.

          Hedging environments once again find themselves in a vanna-unstbale
          orientation with diffuse and mild selling pressure throughout.

          Put-selling has increased slightly on $SPY, coincidentally a head of
          Friday’s large movement. Put-selling on $QQQ remains largely the same.
          In both cases, despite the bullish interpretation, the increase in selling is
          moderate-at-best in magnitude.

          MWGS data suggest that the currents of gamma squeezes have
          increased as expected and GTM suggests continued growth of gamma
          squeezes in the future. This is a bearish print.

          Taken together, VoEx is printing BUPO (of the Bullish variety), and so a
          bullish outlook is adopted, if but only tenuously and without much
          confidence in its duration.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        01/19/2024
                                                   DETAILS




Hello everyone!


What an exciting week. Last week, we left off with a renewed sense of bearish-ness, which, as it
turns out, was incorrect. Despite thoughts and prayers, the market continued its bullish reign, as
can be visualized in the heatmaps below:




We can begin our weekly digressions by noting that for both $SPY and $QQQ, despite the green-
end-of-week, IV30 remains elevated as compared to the Friday prior. Not by a terrible amount,
but $SPY’s IV remains 5% elevated as compared to last Friday’s (2023-01-12.; 0.1114 → 0.1168),
and $QQQ’s remains about 7% elevated (0.1543 → 0.1646).
To stall digging into this week’s data even more, I went and checked LDPM-Vol to see if this IV
change was maybe just a result of retail positioning (i.e.: purchasing calls) or if maybe there
was something else going on. To do this, I figured LDPM-Vol might be a good place to start1.
$SPY’s LDPM-Vol ended last week at 5.74, and ended this week at 8.05, a 40% increase. $QQQ’s
LDPM-Vol ended last week at 6.90, and this week at 8.94, producing a 30% increase. This
increase in LDPM-Vol is reflective of a decrease in liquidity.
Perhaps nothing on its own other than a curious observation but let’s keep it in mind as we
progress.




1
  Quick recap on LDPM-Vol: it was designed to somewhat replace IV-30, or rather, be a measure of volatility (and
tangentially, liquidity) without needing the derivatives market.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                      01/19/2024
As we progress
A good amount of energy last week was spent in deciding if VoEx’s “stalling” at the Inhibition
Zone was an early indication of a return to BUPO (of the Bullish variety) or if it was a quirk in
behavior that should be ignored, while bearish inclinations continued. The bulk of the hand-
waving centered on the leveraged ETFs and their “cleaner” view of VoEx, from which it appeared
that the VoExes on these leveraged ETFs (and $IWM) were still indicating imminent BUPO (of
the bearish variety).
Thus, the stance was taken that the stall should resolve with continued movement towards the
Propagation Zone.
Naturally, the market mocks us.
Et so does VoEx, it seems.




$SPY’s recent VoEx behavior continues to show robust instability with price appreciation, but
the rejection once again from the Propagation Zone continues to muddy the waters of
enlightenment.
$QQQ’s VoEx has also demonstrated renewed bullish inclinations by way of moving into the
Inhibition Zone once more.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      01/19/2024
In this view, we see that the stalling was a precursor to another bout of instability, and as such,
BUPO (of the Bullish variety).
In review of the leveraged ETFs ($TQQQ, $SPXL), the view is much the same as observed on
$SPY and $QQQ: VoExes have reversed course back towards the Inhibition Zone. Worth noting
that this is not true for $IWM, whose VoEx is still within “Stability” and appears to be headed
towards the Propagation Zone:




The outlook from these VoExes is, exhaustingly, Bullish-until-proven-otherwise (BUPO) (well,
except for $IWM).
Perhaps also worth noting on these leveraged ETFs experienced the same increase in IV,
despite the overall green-week.
One difference between $IWM and the rest of the group, is that $IWM experienced a net
decrease in LDPM-Vol, suggesting that this week, liquidity entered $IWM. Despite the overall
weekly decrease in LDPM-Vol, Thursday and Friday saw particularly responsive and positive
moves for LDPM-Vol.
Nonetheless, the take-away from VoEx is that the market has entered into another round of
BUPO (of the Bullish variety). However, I will be keeping my longer-dated vega positions as the
erratic behavior of VoEx continues to raise concern over the longevity of this bullish
performance.
Thus, with tentative bullish outlooks a head, let’s see how the Hedging environments might
respond to a green
week.
Largely the same
set-up:          no
purchasing support
in sight and only
local, and diffuse
selling pressure all
around. This vanna-
unstable orientation is a common feature of the markets lately, and it seems the market has

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        01/19/2024
become quite apt at moving towards gamma neutrality, which is in the $+/IV- (or largely IV-)
direction for both $SPY and $QQQ.
Before moving on, let’s take a peek at the progress of $TQQQ, $SPXL, and $IWM throughout the
week.
Some interesting findings:
                                                 -       As mentioned previously, we note
                                                 that the week ended green, but IV remained
                                                 elevated.
                                                 -       Both $SPXL and $TQQQ had nearby
                                                 purchasing support, which appears to have
                                                 “bolstered” the end-of-week purchasing
                                                 support.
                                                 -       $SPXL’s IV decreased 78% more
                                                 than $TQQQ’s did from the 17th to the 19th;
                                                 $SPXL moved through purchasing support
                                                 while $TQQQ through selling pressure.

                                                 Concerning point (3), this discrepancy in IV
                                                 change is also reflected within LDPM-Vol.
                                                 $TQQQ’s LDPM-Vol rose 178% from the 17th
                                                 to the 19th, while $SPXL’s only rose 81% (a
                                                 75% difference).
                                                 Thus, it seems appreciating into selling
                                                 pressure drained more liquidity than
                                                 appreciating into purchasing support!
                                                 This suggests that the bid is the liquidity
                                                 provider.
                                                 This implies the ask is the liquidity taker.
                                                 Together, it suggests that the bid is moving
                                                 to the ask and facilitating transactions such
                                                 that the price moving up is the “path of least
                                                 resistance”. This sounds like an eager bid: a
                                                 bid that is bidding, regardless of the price.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     01/19/2024
Thus, we have an eager bid that is also the liquidity provider. This begs the question, “what
happens if the bid stops being eager?”. In other words, what happens when the bid is no longer
interested in rising towards the ask? Does this immediately remove liquidity from the market,
causing the ask to have to move
down to the organic bid to
transact?
A potential to ponder perhaps.
Moving    from    the    Hedging
Environments to the hedgers, let’s
see how our put-selling overlords
friends handled this week’s
performance.
A smidgen of put-selling activity
registered on $SPY, and a
somewhat persistent growth of
DLPs noted on $QQQ.

Nothing to write home about but it
does suggest that there is
someone betting on continued
$+/IV-.
Is this sufficient behavior to inspire
confidence of continued bullish
performance? I’ll leave that
determination to the reader.

On the surface, this is a
“lukewarm” print for yours truly
(me) – the ideal would be a nice
complex of put-selling on $SPY, as
observed in 2023-10; nonetheless,
lukewarm isn’t luke-cold.
Moving from the put-sellers to the gamma squeezers, we encounter the paradox of the Weekly
Chat:
The top graph shows the growth-rate of Gamma Squeezes via the gold line, and the overall trend
with the black line. In both cases, we see that since around the start of the year, the growth-rate
of gamma squeezes has been positive.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        01/19/2024
This tracks as the number of gamma squeezes in the market has grown 23% over the past 20
days (933 → 1,150). This growth, however, has been met with concurrent price appreciation, a
strange mix of data.
                                                             The data become stranger
                                                             when we look at the GTM print!
                                                             It’s the infamous “strange
                                                             print” discussed in Weekly
                                                             Chat 2023-08-07.
                                                             In said Weekly Chat, I
                                                             elucidated on the potential
                                                             causes of this type of GTM
                                                             print   by    intricately and
                                                             painstakingly explaining its
                                                             existence as follows:

                                                                             “
                                                               Frankly, I’m not sure exactly.
                                                                             “
                                                             And since this condition hasn’t
                                                             changed much, let’s take a
                                                             peek at the data to see if we
                                                             can perhaps get some clarity.
                                                             To do this, let’s look at the
                                                             revised-GTM, since it is more
                                                             robust and long overdue (we
                                                             can consider this the first entry
                                                             in the updated primer for the
                                                             revised GTM! Yay progress).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   01/19/2024
                                                                                                         2


The “strange GTM prints” from the old-GTM, correspond with the positive movements we are
currently experiencing.
So, to analyze, let’s just take the data, filter for the days that have a GTM print greater-than 50,
                                                    and then look at the 10-Day Rolling Average of
                                                    the %-Change in future price on $SPY. In other
                                                    words, let’s see what the average daily change in
                                                    price is for 10-days after such a large print.
                                                       To the left, we see the boxplot of this process. It
                                                       appears that almost exclusively              $SPY
                                                       experiences an average daily decrease in price
                                                       of -0.37% (median: -0.63%), as compared to
                                                       when GTM is less than 50, which demonstrates
                                                       a average daily move of 0.06% (median: 0.11%).
                                                       This is actually quite surprising and powerful.
                                                       Let’s expand this from just 10-days (trading
                                                       days, by the way), the 20-days to see if this
                                                       relationship holds up.
Sure does! How nifty.




2
  Quick recap: GTM (Gamma Trending Metric) measures the flow of gamma headed towards the market in an
effort to anticipate the creation or destruction of gamma squeezes. When the squiggly lines are above zero, this
means that long gamma is flowing towards the market (and, as such, the future should start to see a decrease in
gamma squeezes, which is a bullish finding for the market), and when the line is below zero, the opposite.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                   01/19/2024
So, there does appear to be some validation to the
hand-waving offered last week: these large positive
spikes (or negative spikes on the old GTM), are
associated with price-decline in the future.
The association does not appear to be quite as
strong, but nonetheless, this appears to be a rather
potent signal.
This adds some collaboration to the hand-waving
that suggested the future should be filled with more
gamma squeezes and more depreciation.


So, all-in-all, we’ve reviewed:
         -   VoEx, which suggests BUPO (of the Bullish Variety) is back,
         -   Hedging Environments which show no purchasing support, continued selling
             pressure, and evidence that the end-of-the-week move was due to an eager bid,
         -   DLP behavior that is technically present but with reduced fervor,
         -   And MWGS data that show GS growth and a GTM print that is correlated with future
             price decline.
Taken together, it’s a difficult compilation of data.
Which brings up a consideration that might be worth considering: in healthy markets, the data is
rarely difficult to interpret.
So, VoEx ushers forth with BUPO (of the Bullish variety), and so I follow tentatively while keeping
a close eye on VoEx, DLP and the MWGS data to monitor this round of overheating.
Happy trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        01/19/2024
