                                    Weekly Chat 11/06/2023


                                          Main Points


   -   VoEx on $SPY and $QQQ have spiked into the Inhibition Zone,
   -   Hedging Environments are by-and-large unsupportive in the event of a $-/IV+ week,
   -   DLP behavior is present but not as robust as before,
   -   MWGS data show a decrease in the number of GS, and a bullish-leaning GTM,
   -   𝑉𝑉 2 is tentatively showing a reduction in the data-collapse.
   -   Tentatively moving towards a Bullish-until-proven-otherwise outlook unless VoEx
       should fall out of the I.Z.

                                            SUMMARY

           This week saw substantial movements in price, which puts $SPY and
           $QQQ in the crosshairs for mean-reversion. A quick look at how this
           normally plays out shows (for $SPY), a 95% confidence interval
           containing a 2-week price change of ±2.5% to ±3.5%, which is currently
           ~1% greater than the market’s expectations.

           VoEx has spiked on $SPY and $QQQ into the Inhibition Zone, however it
           is too soon to say if a BUPO outlook can be adopted or if this is a VoEx
           Spike response due to the market’s substantially larger-than-usual price
           movements.

           DLP behavior is present but diminished as compared to before, which
           brings with it mixed feelings with a hint of reduced confidence in further
           bullish performance (but confidence present, nonetheless).

           Curiously, 𝑉𝑉 2 is already demonstrating a flattening-out, something that
           wasn’t expected until the market correction was nearing completion;
           suggesting that, perhaps, the market correction is nearing completion.

           All-in-all, the early part of the week will be pivotal: should VoEx fall out of
           the I.Z., then an outlook more congruent with VoEx Spike seems
           reasonable, whereas should VoEx continue northward, or persist within
           the I.Z., a BUPO outlook seems reasonable.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           11/06/2023
                                                   DETAILS




My friends, it is time for the real 2023-11-06 Weekly Chat. What good news.
Last week, we left off with the notion that there wasn’t much data to forecast a forming bullish
wave a head of us, and as such, prudency suggested continued downside.
Apparently, the market didn’t get the memo (rude), and $SPY decided to move +5.84% and
$QQQ decided to run 6.49% - oof. It would appear that there was , in fact, a bullish wave forming;
and one that was quite intent on moving the market.
We can visualize the magnitude of these moves with the hedging heatmaps from last week:




With north-westerly expansion towards the edges of the Gamma Hedging Heatmaps, it would
seem that the market chewed through any and all selling pressure the hedging environment
threw at it.

These moves are quite remarkable. In terms of EPR-normalized moves1, $SPY moved 2.67 this
week – in other words, $SPY moved 2.67 times more than the market had expected. Another
way to view these enormous moves is by calculating the magnitude difference between the T+5
EPR and the realized move, in which case we see that $SPY’s moves were 91% larger-in-
magnitude than expected.
The same can be seen with $QQQ. $QQQ had an EPR-normalized move of 2.41, which translates
to a magnitude difference of 83%.
These greater-than-expected moves are quite substantial.




1
 EPR-normalized is a good way of looking at how much a stock moves with regards to its expected move. To
calculate, take the realized move and simply divide it by the EPR of the same timeframe. So here, the T+5 move of
$SPY was 5.84% and the T+5 EPR was ±2.17%, which gives an IV-normalized move of 2.67.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                      11/06/2023
In fact, let’s take a peek and characterize these events quickly, to see if there is anything
interesting. To do so, let’s take the T+5 EPR for $SPY and then calculate the EPR-Normalized
values for week-over-week:




Above, we see a graph demonstrating each EPR-Normalized Week-over-Week value for $SPY
from 2020-12 to present. Of note, it is worth mentioning that the current value of 2.67 is the 4th
highest! Not too shabby!
In terms of distribution or probabilities, our current value of 2.67 ranks in the top 5% of the
distribution curve! So a pretty uncommon event.
Now, does this mean anything? Well – yes but its hard to discern exactly what it means for right
now, but suppose we start by look at the magnitude of change over the next 2 weeks from each
of these data prints, and then graphed how $SPY’s closing price changed. That is to say, let’s
see what happens on a two week rolling basis after these prints2!




2
  The ideal analysis would include directionality – that is to say, it would be ideal to have included in the data if the
stock moved up or down during these periods, rather than just how much (the magnitude) the price moved. With
this directional data, it might provide an avenue for anticipating and quantifying the mysterious “Mean Reversion”
in the market – but alas, for now, we only have magnitude, but we may well revisit this later.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                            11/06/2023
Above we see the magnitude of price change over the next two weeks (y-axis) as compared to
the EPR-Normalized Price Movement3.
What does this tell us? Well – it suggests that as the market’s move expand beyond the EPR for
that week, the resulting movement over the next two weeks grows!

For us today, these data suggest that the market can expect a movement between the ranges of
±2.5% and ±3.5%! That’s pretty substantial. In particular because $SPY’s T+5 is only 1.52% and
its T+10 is only 2.14%.

In other words, with respect to how much $SPY moved and when compared to how much $SPY
was expected to move in the past week, it would seem that the next two weeks have a
reasonable chance to exceed the market’s expectations. In other other words: IV is cheap!
Since the market is expecting a T+10 of ± 2.14% for $SPY, it seems that (per this cursory
investigation), the data suggest realized vol will be greater than implied volatility over the next
two weeks!
How nifty.
But, before we get caught up in yet another distracting thread, let’s ground ourselves back in
reality.



3
  Just to clarify this graph some more: the red line is $SPY’s current value, and the blue line is the linear regression
curve of the data points (essentially the overall trend). The blue shaded region around it is the 95% confidence
interval. Using this confidence interval, if we start at the red dashed line and move to the y-axis (highlighted
region), it shows us the 95% confidence interval for the magnitude of price change that can be expected over the
next 2 weeks.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                            11/06/2023
We’ve seen that this week’s moves were quite notable, and that this notability comes with some
expectations for larger notability in the weeks ahead.
Thus, it seems the only real goal to figure out now is if that notoriety will be positive or negative.

Ought knots know notoriety?
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see some peculiar changes with $SPY and $QQQ:




Above we see $SPY’s VoEx moving rapidly into the Inhibition Zone in response to its recent
large movements.
The same can be said for $QQQ:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           11/06/2023
These VoEx movements echo the instability we have been tracking recently, and with VoEx’s
rapid egress from the Propagation Zone into the I.Z., one can’t help but consider BUPO (Bullish-
until-proven-otherwise) as a reasonable expectation.
But - this expectation isn’t
without its controversy either.
For example, consider the
Market Currents report from
Thursday (2023-11-02):

That’s a lot of VoEx Spikes!
Throughout the entire market,
it would seem significant
amounts of VoEx spikes
occurred on Thursday (with
some appreciable amounts
on Friday as well; Thursday
was just more impressive in
quantity).
So, whereas a BUPO response seems
reasonable here per VoEx, it also seems this
instability was shared throughout the whole
market. And, as we have seen, this instability
typically resolves on the downside.
Something to ponder as the idea of BUPO
solidifies.
Moving from VoEx to the Hedging
Environments, we see that $SPY (right) is
starting the week out with local selling
pressure. The overall configuration has seen
                                                    movement from a vanna-stable orientation
                                                    towards a vanna-unstable orientation.
                                                    This creates an environment in which
                                                    selling pressure will be introduced, should
                                                    the market see an overall drop in price
                                                    (less so on $QQQ, admittedly).

                                                    $QQQ is in a somewhat better position
                                                    with its hedging environment (left).
                                                    As with $SPY, there is local selling
                                                    pressure, but there is at least a minor
                                                    promise of purchasing support in the event


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     11/06/2023
of a spot-down week – supposing, of course, that IV doesn’t work to push $QQQ down-and-to-
the-right, preventing it from reaching said purchasing support.
In both cases, we see the influence distributions are pointing towards a flat-to-red week a head.
In combination, it seems there is a high risk for mean reversion within an unsupportive hedging
environment. VoEx is tentatively deciding between BUPO and a VoEx Spike. This sets up quite
the anticipation for Monday’s VoEx print!
Now, let’s move from VoEx and the Hedging Environments towards our DLP friends. Last week,
you may remember, there was some rumblings in the wind about potentially having to re-
evaluate the effectiveness or efficacy of our put-selling-friends. Thankfully, due to the week’s
price-action, it would seem that this isn’t the case! Our friends are still quite well-timed.
So, with that in mind, let’s see what they’re up to:




It would certainly seem that, at least for the $SPY-put-sellers (to whom we may owe an apology
for doubting their expertise), that the outlook for the week ahead isn’t quite as cheery – with a
50% decrease in put-selling as compared to the week’s prior Friday.

Not the most bullish of prints but certainly not an overtly bearish one.
Moving onwards, we see that within the gamma arena, there was quite a precipitous drop in the
number of gamma squeezes on Friday:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       11/06/2023
With a Week-over-Week change in the MWGS-count of 35%, we can say that there was certainly
a drop!
GTM (both versions) are showing a modest bullish lean (not shown) with a subtle net movement
of long-gamma into the market.
Thus, it would seem that the market, at least from a Gamma Squeeze perspective, is tentatively
cooling off 4.
Thus, so far we have seen:
    -   VoEx is suggestive of BUPO with its rapid movement into the I.Z. while still being a tad
        too nascent to completely rule-out spike-like behavior;
    -   The next day or so will be important to see if VoEx stays within the I.Z. or rapidly drops
        out of it (BUPO or VoEx Spike scenario);
    -   The Gamma Hedging Environments are unsupportive (mostly) in the event of a $-/IV+
        move,
    -   DLP behavior is present but not as stark as before,
    -   Gamma squeeze are diminishing.
Quite the mixed bag! It seems ever-more suggestive of a bullish wave forming ahead of us.

Our last stop on our data-journey is 𝑉𝑉 2, let’s see what it has to say:



4
 Rant time! Anyone remember how Gamma is distributed? If not, no worries, check out the Greek Cheat Sheet on
Gamma and check out the graph on the left. In a nut shell, its shaped sort of like the Influence Distribution curves
but a bit more symmetrical. Now – suppose a bunch of stocks are sitting at the peak (in the middle), and are in a
gamma squeeze. If the price moves (say, things more to the left of the peak), then the overall gamma amount
decreases! If this decrease in gamma is a decrease in short gamma, then it would appear on the surface as though
gamma squeezes have suddenly dried up! But is this really the case? Is the short gamma still present should the
price fall? In other words, can we be certain that the options field has changed substantially to offset any budding
gamma squeezes, or has the market just casually stepped out of the still-present-but-located-spot-down gamma
squeeze? If only we could see somewhere if selling provokes more selling as that would help suggest if the gamma
squeezes are still lurking below! *queue Halloween music*.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                       11/06/2023
Some flattening out! This was one of the signs of a “flip” from a medium-to-longer-term Bearish
outlook to a bullish one!
How curious.

So, overall, it would appear that the cards are becoming stacked towards a bullish week a head
but with some heavy caveats :
   1) VoEx hasn’t dedicated itself to BUPO just yet but has merely entered the I.Z.,
   2) There is a substantial risk of mean-reversion with greater-than-expected movements due
      to the Week prior’s movements,
   3) In the event of such a mean-reverting week, there is no purchasing support available to
      $SPY and $QQQ
In combination, these make taking a fully bully outlook difficult, but should the early part of the
week demonstrate a rising VoEx rather than a falling one with price appreciation, then perhaps it
will be the outlook to adopt.


Happy trading!


Justin



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        11/06/2023
