                                   Weekly Chat 09/11/2023


                                          Main Points


    -   VoEx continues to display erratic behavior with some indications of BUPO’s return.
    -   Hedging Heatmaps offer opposite views with $SPY being unsupportive in the event of
        a $-/IV+ week while $QQQ offers reasonable purchasing support.
    -   MWGS-data is becoming increasingly bearish with positive growth rates and positive
        GTM prints.
    -   𝑉𝑉 2 suggests that the recent downside did little to quell the overall “overheating”
        occurring within the market.
    -   Potential for choppy week with prudence placed on bearish outlooks until substantial
        and maintained data changes.



                                           SUMMARY



          VoEx this week is continuing its erratic behavior, however, a glance at its
          location suggests its poised to express this instability with another round
          of BUPO.

          This outlook, looks to be worked against by way of the selling pressure
          located in the $+/IV- quadrants for both $SPY and $QQQ. Additionally,
          $QQQ is also poised to offer reasonable purchasing support if the
          opposite ($-/IV+) occurs.

          Put-sellers are uninspired as the MWGS-data crosses the threshold into
          bearish-outlook-territory with positive growth and GTM values.

          On a longer time-horizon, 𝑉𝑉 2 offers little solace that the recent market dip
          was sufficient to cool off the market. Additionally, there are more data
          within the Propagation Zone – supporting the notion that a larger market
          correction is nearby.

          Overall, for the week ahead, it seems prudent to expect choppy price
          action as hedging forces compete against one another but it doesn’t seem
          prudent to switch back fully to a bullish outlook just yet.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         09/11/2023
                                                DETAILS




Heyo all!
Last week, we left off with the idea that things were looking shaky, with the overall goal to
downsize long positions and start leaning into short positions should the market present itself
accordingly.
Well, with $SPY down 1.26%, and $QQQ down -1.33% (which, as it turns out, $SPY’s EPR for the
week was drum roll ±1.26%! $QQQ’s, on the other hand, is less serendipitous with a weekly EPR
of ±1.92%).
Through the lens of the Hedging Environments we can see that $SPY and $QQQ moved nicely
into selling pressure throughout the week,
with only $SPY experiencing a slight
rebound as the week came to an end.

Not too exciting considering the
abundance of selling pressure, but it does
harken back to our conversations about
what the market might do with purchasing
support in absentia. The good news: the
market didn’t plummet, but we can see that
there wasn’t enough eager bid to resist a
downwards drift which supplies evermore
credence to the idea that the tentative tug-
of-war between eager bid and an eager ask
seems perilously dependent on which price
insensitive forces are entering the market.
So, with that in mind, let’s turn towards the
next week a head of us and see if we can’t
renew some market-interest.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     09/11/2023
My interest about interests peaking has piqued
Starting as usual with VoEx, one may well find the data to be immediately brow-furrow-inducing:
                                                                              Despite VoEx’s insistence in
                                                                              maintaining a presence outside of
                                                                              the Propagation Zone, which on
                                                                              the surface seems kind of $SPY, I
                                                                              am still not a huge fan of how
                                                                              erratic VoEx has been.
                                                                              Nonetheless, one cannot deny
                                                                              that VoEx is inside of stability and
                                                                              VoEx-trend looks poised to enter
                                                                              into the Inhibition Zone, both
                                                                              tentatively bullish prints.



With $QQQ’s VoEx, the story seems
more “in progressed” with VoEx-
trend’s place inside of the Inhibition
Zone already secured. As with $SPY,
$QQQ’s erratic VoEx behavior has
placed VoEx within stability.
Curiously, this set up reminds me of
Weekly Chat 2023-05-15 wherein
$QQQ had, in similar fashion,
already secured its move into the
Inhibition Zone (and thus, a BUPO
outlook) while $SPY lagged behind.

The benefit that past-Justin had, however, is that this situation was preceded by a relatively calm
and reasonable VoEx rather than what current-Justin is contending with: an angry and somewhat
overly-spikey VoEx (excuse my technical jargon).

In both cases, there is a desire to switch to a BUPO stance: with $QQQ’s VoEx nearing existence
within the Inhibition Zone, and $SPY seemingly following suite – but, the increased erratic
behavior from VoEx recently provides some cautionary pause: perhaps VoEx’s location is more a
by-product of its own erratic behavior rather than an indication of the behavior of the foundational
flows1.


1
  Admittedly the two are one-and-the-same but it suffices to say there’s a subtle difference. A VoEx that is itself
erratic is indicating an unstable stock regardless of its location. That is to say, suppose a driver is swerving all over
the highway – occasionally the driver will pass through his own lane. But can we say that the driver, when
occasionally in his lane, is offering a more stable outlook to his future driving behavior? Probably not. His driving is
in-and-of-itself unstable. His presence within his lane is simply a casual consequence of his overall reckless
behavior.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                            09/11/2023
So, the question becomes: is VoEx’s instability (propagated by the index’s instability) pushing it
into the Inhibition Zone or are we simply observing instability itself?
An unfortunate question to have to answer as it will simply depend on time and observations in
order to determine.
Nonetheless, VoEx offers the view that the market is still unstable, despite the recent dip, which
doesn’t bode well for any arguments towards the efficacy of the recent “cooling-off” period
experienced.
With that, it seems the question is whether to prepare now for more downturn, or expect a quick
BUPO event, and then more downturn.
Let’s turn to some additional data to see if we can triangulate some prudent choices.
The Hedging Heatmaps demonstrate a unique arrangement as well with $SPY offering no
purchasing support in the event of a $-/IV+ week, while $QQQ’s stable vanna-squeeze is poised
to offer some substantial purchasing support in the event of a $-/IV+ week.




What a combo that is auspiciously neutral for helping us decide on any outlooks.
However, if Kindergarten taught me anything, its that the blue is darker than the red, and thus,
there is probably more blue than red, and thus, more purchasing support than selling pressure. A
slight nod towards $QQQ’s more bullish outlook, as it were.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       09/11/2023
                                 Our put-selling friends seem to have
                                 reduced their eagerness in capturing
                                 future returns by selling volatility and
                                 delta, with $QQQ still experiencing a
                                 net draw-down in the DLP’s being
                                 opened (negative 5-day %-change)
                                 while $SPY has peeked ever-so
                                 slightly above zero after a precipitous
                                 drop last week.


                                 Nonetheless, we can see that as
                                 compared to the last two weeks, this
                                 behavior is, again, rather lackluster
                                 and uninspiring.
                                 It would seem that those-who-sell-
                                 puts aren’t too confident in the dip
                                 having dippeth-ed, at least in the near-
                                 term, as there is minimal eagerness to
                                 sell puts after the recent ~1%
                                 downside this week.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                              09/11/2023
The Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze
(MWGS)-data is also teetering into bearish
territory again with the growth-trend and
growth-rate (top graph; black line and gold
line, respectively) being once-more
positive.
In addition to the 14% increase in the
number of gamma squeezes this week,
GTM is printing positive values as well.
Suggestive of more gamma squeeze
starting to form and come “down the line”
into the market.

This is echoed as well in the revised-GTM
plot which demonstrates a net-flow of
short-gamma into the market (gold
highlighting is below zero), and the recent
individual data prints moving into negative
territory as well.

Thus, it would seem reasonable to expect
a continued flow of gamma squeezes into
the market, and thus, more bearish
performance from this view.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                09/11/2023
Lastly, we can peek at VoEx Variance (𝑉𝑉 2) to see if there are any developments on that front.




[Note: I re-ran all of the data to ensure all 4.7 million observations were sound and to repair some
missing data].

𝑉𝑉 2 is showing continued reduced angle-of-attack within the Inhibition and Stable Zones, with
additional data prints appearing within the Propagation Zone.
This medium-to-longer-term view still offers relatively the same one as we have been observing:
there’s still over-heating (by way of how many dots are within the Inhibition Zone), and growing
VoEx’s within the Propagation Zone throughout the market – a sign of an upcoming downside.
So, what can we take away from all of this:
   -     VoEx is still unstable and it doesn’t appear as though the recent downside was enough
         to quell this instability (if it were, VoEx wouldn’t be so erratic still!)
   -     Hedging Environments are oddly opposite with $QQQ demonstrating some reasonable $-
         /IV+ purchasing support while $SPY only offers some light selling pressure.
   -     Our DLP friends are uninspired,
   -     MWGS data is becoming increasingly bearish,
   -     𝑉𝑉 2 continues to suggest we seem to be nearing a larger downside still.
Perhaps a choppy week from competing hedging environments is forthcoming, with any long
gains quickly captured as instability doesn’t appear to have left the market just yet.
Happy trading,
Justin

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         09/11/2023
