                                   Weekly Chat 10/07/2024


                                         Main Points



    -   VoEx retains its Bullish-until-proven-otherwise sentiment, with VoEx maintaining its
        position within Stability.
    -   The hedging environments demonstrate diffuse purchasing support; some downside
        weakness noted but a reasonable amount of blue before then.
    -   DLP activity has spiked, with $SPY showing ~50% growth rates; $QQQ lags slightly
        around 10%.
    -   LDPM demonstrates the liquidity vacuum is still present with an inverted daily LDPM on
        $ES, but for now, LDPS remains bullish.
    -   Bullish sentiments abound.

                                          SUMMARY



           Last week, there was concern that the “bottom might fall out”, but that
           didn’t happen!

           In response, VoEx is maintaining its BUPO stance, while the hedging
           environments offer little resistance to this view.

           Some put-selling activity noted in $SPY (and to a lesser degree $QQQ) ,
           which nods towards our put-selling friends being in-agreement with us.

           A curious look at the SNAP graphs suggests some weakness about a
           month out.

           More curious handwaving suggests that with the liquidity-vacuum still
           present, some magic lines on a chart suggest that within the month,
           several major LDPMs are going to start crossing. Ideally LDPM-89 crosses
           over LDPM-144 on the daily and we can start putting these pesky bearish
           concerns to rest for the winter.

           Overall, bullish outlooks abound!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   10/076/2024
                                               --

                                            Update
                                               --


Re: Operating Procedure 11: Notification of Processing Error – High Priority
2024-09-30



Fixed!


The old data has to be re-calculated but going-forward the DLP data is working as intended.




Justin
Deep Dive Stocks

Justin@DeepDiveStocks.com




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    10/076/2024
                                             DETAILS




Hello every-body!
Last week, we had some consternations regarding our overall bullish outlook. These concerns
stemmed mainly from VoEx-daily being weird1, and LDPS suggesting a liquidity vacuum was
present below spot.
To this end, it appeared there were two options ahead of us: a rapid closure of said liquidity
vacuum, or, in a more languished and volatile week [but admittedly more bullish overall], things
would chop then end slightly down.
Well, part of that was true! But - $SPY managed to squeeze out a 0.26% positive move for the
week, while $QQQ moved 0.12%. (It could be noted that the overall movement for the week for
$SPY was 2.4%, while $SPY moved 3.05! Tres2 Choppy).
Can’t win them all.
Let’s go ahead and look at these moves through the lens of the gamma hedging heatmaps:




On the left we see $SPY, floating through purchasing support throughout the week, while $QQQ
(on the right) cradled back-and-forth, cresting the ceiling of the boundary of ~the danger zone~.
Thankfully, it seems that in the latter-half of the week, thanks to IV rising some, things drifted
northward towards bleak gamma neutrality (but away from the red, at least).
Who could ask for more?
Since this week was relatively in-line with projections, our job is pretty straightforward: ensure
that things are still vroomin’ and if so, prepare to vroom (or not to vroom)!




1
    My nickname in highschool.
2
    A very spanish word for three.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      10/076/2024
Vroom
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see:




Some healthy looking VoExes!
VoEx-daily did indeed dip some, but so far, nothing to write home about.
So, with VoEx and VoEx-daily looking healthy, the outlook remains: Bullish-until-proven-otherwise
(BUPO).
Thus, with bullish inklings, let’s check out the current gamma hedging environments:




Not too shabby! Some concern should spot drop too much on $QQQ presently, but there’s at least
some good purchasing support from hither to tither.
IV won’t play too much of a role with the hedging environments unless the market sees some very
large moves (at current spot, IV on $QQQ would have to drop 30% before it reached selling
pressure).
Not too shabby, but lets move on! As noted above, the DLP data is working, and, just in time!



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     10/076/2024
Okay – so its not too terribly exciting, but at least there’s some activity now! (We’ll see how it
compares once the back-data is fixed).
But, at least our bullish outlooks are seeing some bipartisan support.
Up next are the gamma squeeze data, but they aren’t too exciting so we’re skipping them; gamma
squeezes are steady-ish, and GTM is still floating slightly negative.

Up next but for real this time, is a not too-often-included metric: the SNAP graphs!




                                                                Nothing too special but I thought
                                                                it was interesting that both SNAP
                                                                graphs are noticing something in
                                                                VoEx suggesting that about 1-
                                                                month out suggesting that there’s
                                                                some weakness to be had.


                                                                On the next page, we’ll see that
                                                                with sufficient hand-waving, this
                                                                timeframe over-laps another
                                                                timeframe.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         10/076/2024
Before we get to the lines3, let’s review the elephant in the room: namely, #ES still hasn’t resolved
its liquidity vacuum and what that means for you and me. Some observations:
[Daily] – Standard Observations.

      -    LDPM-233 and LDPM-89/144 are the same distance from one another as they were (i.e.:
           the liquidity vacuum is approximately the same size),
      -    LDPM-89 is refusing to over-take LDPM-144. The week of chop hasn’t even worked to un-
           invert the LDPMs, and
      -    Also note the “Splash” pattern! LDPM-21 is completing its “crest”.

[Daily] – Disconcerted Observations

As I pondered the SNAP graphs, I couldn’t help but notice that LDPM-89 appeared to be shifting
towards LDPM-233 (as previously noted) but I thought “huh, let’s project” and, in a stunning turn
of events, instead of that being a you-issue, it’s a way of looking where LDPM is going to go.
In doing so, we notice that!:
      -    LDPM-89 and LDPM-233 are set to cross between the next 2 days (if LDPM-89 really goes
           zooming up) or the next 25 days4
      -    If we then project that timeframe southwards onto the Weekly interval, this also
           coїncidences with LDPM-89 crossing the weekly bars!



3
    A review of how I draw these lines can be found in Weekly Chat 2024-08-26.
4
    That’s about a month!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        10/076/2024
In this potential reality, as the cards stand, LDPM is also painting a turbulent picture within the
month! Furthermore, if we use LDPM-144 (gold line) as a potential target should this turbulence
really “give way”, we see its sitting at a casual ~9% down.

Not terrible but perhaps worth considering as we monitor these LDPMs and VoEx.
Or it could be nothing!

Well even so – I would really like to see the daily LDPM for ES un-invert. Then, truthfully, I think
would stop potentially looking for issues.
But until then! It seems BUPO with an eye on the daily LDPM for ES.
Happy Trading,
Justin


P.S.: Let’s talk a bit more about LDPM/S from last week. I’ll try to make this a more practical-
focused review.
First up, let’s quickly review the two “distinct” showings from LDPM (the Aggressive Bid Cascade
[ABC for short] and the Aggressive Ask Cascade! [AAC for short]) and next week, we can relate
them to our discussions from last week (hopefully) 5.




5
    Originally referred to as “The Dunk” and “The Scoop” respectively.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        10/076/2024
Firstly up of the two showings, ABC (Ψ𝑏𝑏 ):




Its presentation is pretty straight-forward:
   1) A big dip in LDPMs occurs,
   2) The lower-order LDPMs are to rapidly spike above the price in order. They then fall
      suddenly and “rejoin” the group.
      Some things to note:

   -   Often-times this signals a bull-trap with the rapid rising of the lower-order LDPMs a
       reasonable indicator of when the peak has been reached. Notice that in the example, the
       peak of price-action was when LDPM-13 spike northward.
   -   Ultimately, there are times when this is “survived” (as I put it in my noggin), but this is also
       usually when at step (3), conditions remain bullish.
   -   The ceiling for the price is typically established by the most-recent LDPM as it descends
       to join the group.


Overall, this pattern shows up pretty frequently but can take on different general “forms”. Below
is another ABC on $ZM:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          10/076/2024
Notice here, the first step is minimal, but we can see that, unlike the previous example, this
aggressive bid was potent enough to invert the LDPMs! This would be a “non-survived” ABC.

Up next, is the opposite of ABC, AAC!
[JK, here’s another example of ABC, but a DOUBLE!




] 6.




6
    More examples of ABC can be found in Weekly Chat 2024-07-29

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  10/076/2024
Up next, AAC (Ψ𝑎𝑎)!




Essentially the opposite of ABC:
    -    Upwards “splash” of LDPMs,
    -    Lower-order LDPMs rush down and typically indicate the “floor”
    -    This lasts for as long as the LDPMs don’t get broken as they rise
The consequences of AAC are more mixed than ABC (which, admittedly, typically is “survived”
unless LDPS turns bearish), and I’ve found there are two main indicators as to the “strength” of
AAC’s development:

         1—LDPS remains Bullish
         2 — The lower-order LDPMs are “well-obeyed” by the price. That is to say, as the LDPMs
         rise, they act as successive support levels for the price. If this gets broken (like we can
         see in the example above), it is likely that the AAC will be “unsuccessful” (in attempting to
         turn things bullish).

So overall, those are two of the main patterns that LDPM can present with.
Next week, we’ll go on about how these patterns line-up with our framework from last week.
Til then!

Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         10/076/2024
