                                   Weekly Chat 5/28/2024


                                          Main Points


    -   VoEx is mixed; bullish on the medium term, and bearish on the short-term.
    -   Hedging environments are in a vanna-stable orientation for both $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   Put-selling remains minimal, with some agonal twitching present.
    -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data forecast more short gamma heading towards the
        market.
    -   Overall, increased risk for near-term downside with medium-term bullish outlook
        maintained.

                                          SUMMARY



          VoEx did not resolve as much as desired this week, but overall conditions
          look to be resolving towards the bullish side – at least on the medium-
          term. The shorter-term is littered with data suggestive of a slight pullback.

          The Gamma Hedging environments show a vanna-stable orientation for
          both $SPY and $QQQ.$QQQ has a noticeable reduction in purchasing
          support in the event of a $+. This has the potential to exacerbate any
          downside movements.

          In the theme of minimally-viable-bullish-near-term-outlooks, put-sellers
          have once-more continued their non-action. This lack of decisiveness is
          suggestive of a lack of confidence in near-term bullish performance.

          The MWGS-data show a monthly, bi-weekly, and weekly increase in
          gamma squeezes in the market. This increase has been met with a
          suddenly negative GTM. Together, this points towards an incoming
          increase in gamma squeezes, and with it, bearish expectations.

          Overall, bearish on the near-term, still tentatively bullish on all other
          timeframes.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        05/28/2024
                                             DETAILS




Hello everyone!


This week was fascinating, in particularly if you are interested in not much happening. Then it was
quite a show.
This week, $SPY moved essentially 0%, while $QQQ performed impressively with +1.37%. This
startling movement can be seen below:




It would seem $QQQ performed what I believe the astronauts-of-today call “a loopdee-loop”, while
$SPY simply fell and bounced back up.
Uneventful, but annoyingly choppy.
This week, let’s see if the indecisive market has at least provided some decisive data. Then, let’s
have a chat about the Liquidity Trading Robot and the next steps for DDS.
So, let’s get started.
The week ahead
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see:




Pure, unadulterated, disrespect.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        05/28/2024
$SPY’s VoEx seems to have bounced directly off of the Propagation Line, while $QQQ’s VoEx is -
stalled. The end result is: nothing has changed. VoEx is still just-so within the Inhibition Zone, just
as before.

Neo-VoEx, thankfully, although, as you will see offers some reprieve from our belabored minds
with a pretty reasonably bullish print!




Neo-VoEx for $SPY (remember, in this version, VoEx is gold1) is technically still within the
Propagation Zone, but its journey northward is quite apparent. This brings with it renewed
medium-to-longer term bullish outlooks.

An even more bullish print for $QQQ on the right – with VoEx and VoEx-daily situated well within
Stability, this is indicative of continued bullish performance.
On the near-term, it’s not unreasonable to expect some pullback (as VoEx-daily for both $SPY and
$QQQ seem poised to take a quick dip back into P.Z.), this, should it happen, appears to be a “buy-
the-dip” sort of move, given VoExes movement towards stability on $SPY and VoEx’s current loci
in stability on $QQQ.
So, with tentative medium-term bullish ideologies with some short-term turbulence perhaps. Let’s
see how the hedging environments are poised to handle this:




1
    More on the transition process below.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            05/28/2024
Much the same set up as last week – a vanna-stable orientation for $SPY and (to a lesser extent)
$QQQ. Perhaps much-the-same price action should be expected then: flat-to-green, unless IV
moves reasonably up, in which case $QQQ will start seeing loss of purchasing support.

Is this the outlook of our put-selling friends? Is there any hope for some profitability a là price
appreciation or IV reduction?
                                               If you squint, and I mean, really get in there, you
                                               can see the tiniest of bumps of growth in DLP
                                               activity.
                                               But, if you’re like me and detest headaches, you
                                               probably won’t have the constitution to squint long
                                               enough to even consider if this is a worthwhile print
                                               or not.
                                               However, despite its immediate significance, it
                                               does warrant monitoring over the next few days to
                                               see if this is the start of a larger trend.
                                               If so, and there’s a nice upwards movement in DLP
                                               activity, then I think increasing long exposure
                                               would be my next consideration.
                                               Moving from just our friends to the market-at-large,
                                               we come across the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze
                                               data!




The growth in gamma squeeze has become
officially positive, with a modest 10% increase in
gamma squeezes week-over-week (a 14% over
the past 10 days, and 7% over the past month!).
Coinciding with this increase in current gamma
squeezes is GTM’s dive into negative territory.
This tells us that there is even more short-
gamma on its way to the market - this flow will
work to push gamma squeezes into the market.

These data do seem to point towards an increase
threat for near-term downside (which would
seem to fit the potential for VoEx-daily to dive
into the PZ on neo-VoEx).
So – a reasonable mix of data.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         05/28/2024
On one hand, VoEx (of all varieties) is technically bullish but (if we embrace the forbidden arts of
data forecasting, then VoEx ) looks poised to enter into the Propagation Zone, despite the overall
more bullish outlook.
This is hand-wavingly supported by our put-sellers, who also seem to think there’s at least
reasonable risk for unfavorable conditions status post long puts, as well as with the MWGS-data
that indicate incoming turbulence, which typically moves things to the downside.
The current hedging environments seem well suited to weather some downside but on $QQQ its
noted that should IV rise too much, the purchasing support will quickly diminish.
So, other than VoEx’s overall behavior and location on the medium-to-longer terms, things look
reasonably suited for a near-term dip!
Quick word!
Few things:
   -     To get stated:
            o LTA has been released! You should have been added. If not, please let me know
                and I’ll get you added (email me with your TV username also).
                     LTA comes with a Get Started guide. It should be included in this week’s
                         Weekly Chat email. If not, let me know!
            o I am in the process of phasing neo-VoEx into being just “VoEx” but, you know me,
                I can’t spell in any language, including R, so the research/validation portion is
                taking a bit longer than usual. I apologize for the constant needing to switch back
                and forth – but, for what it is worth – it has been relatively nice seeing in it action
                these past few months. This implementation also includes getting it on the
                Dashboard, which will be included in the next round of updates.
            o Which, speaking of which, I am expecting the next big update to be around July
                12th-ish, should all things go well. I’ll keep you updated.
            o Also – I switched out the heatmaps in the reports. Forgot about those!


Happy Trading –


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            05/28/2024
