                                     Weekly Chat 2025-10-27


                                            Main Points



       -   VoEx is within the Propagation Zone while VoEx-daily has spiked.
       -   Gamma-hedging heatmaps are support with robust purchasing support located
           spot-down.
       -   Gamma-squeeze environment has reduced its counts to baseline levels.
       -   LS/LT investigation on ES shows minimal overhead resistance and bullish liquidity.
       -   Composite chart of BTC/VX suggests a repeat cycle with downside resuming near
           the end of the month.
       -   Until then, turbulent appreciation expected.

                                             SUMMARY


           Despite soft suggestion given to the market for downside, the week ran sideways
           and then moved to the upside. In response, VoEx has entered the Propagation
           Zone on $SPY and $QQQ while VoEx-daily has spiked.

           In combination these paint a near-term price appreciatory environment that will
           resolve back towards the downside (i.e.: not a time for month+ long positions).
           This is supported by the gamma hedging heatmaps which show near-term
           purchasing support and LS/LT investigations, in particular with the BTC/VX
           composite chart.

           Overall, the current environment looks eerily similar and so we should expect the
           outcomes to be as well.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                  2025-10-27 to 2025-10-31
                                             DETAILS




Hello!
Last week, we left off with notions of being range-bound but with an overall expectation of
resolution towards the downside.
D’habitude, the market then decided to move 1.93% (for $SPY) and 2.18% (for $QQQ) – quite the
opposite! There is some solace that the Monday until Friday close range was near 0% for both but
the “resolution towards the downside” part was ignored.
We can visualize the week’s progress in the heatmaps below:




It seems the week started with movement directly to the selling pressure located spot-up and
thereabouts stagnated until Friday, whenupon it pushed through.
This week, let’s take a look at the data once more to see how our downside expectations are
forming and see if we can get timing on our sides.
I heard time likes shiny objects so I’ve left some buttons out

Starting as usual with VoEx we see:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of            2025-10-27 to 2025-10-31
In short, if we add a small notation, I think the whole of the weekly chat will be summed:




In short – it appears we have started a VoEx(-daily) spike – much like how things started at the
started of the year. This gives us about 1 month of turbulent upside until things get spicy. In the
meantime, if VoEx leaves the Propagation Zone, this will just revert to a bullish outlook but VoEx
usually isn’t in the habit of moving from one zone to the other without some consequence.
Thus, for now, it appears one more unreasonable climb is underway.
Checking in with our hedging heatmaps we find that a bullish outlook is supported on the near-
term:




With pronounced purchasing support on both $SPY and $QQQ, it appears that any significant
downwards push would have to carve through some significant pressure. To counter this buoyant
force we find (on $QQQ at least) immediate and quite intense selling pressure. This paints a week
of back-and-forth with a slight lean towards “resolve on towards the upside”1.
It should be of no surprise then that the MWGS data have reverted and more gamma squeezes
have diminished (not shown) to base-line counts of ~600. This also pushes back the downside
deadline. Over the next month, any price stagnation should spur a look at the gamma-squeeze
counts; if my hunch from last week holds true then several days of price stagnation or even a day
of moderate (within EPR) $− should be met with quite the spike in GS counts.

1
    Fool me once.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of                2025-10-27 to 2025-10-31
Moving onwards to liquidity, we find:




The skies are clear!
For both near-term (90-minute and 144-minute) charts we find spot with bullish liquidity pushing
above all LS resistances. This is accompanied by the longer-term charts (987-minute and 1-week)
presenting also with bullish liquidity above LS resistances.
Thus, from this view, things appear to be rosy! Such an outlook would be maintained until LS
switches back to bearish (I’d keep an eye on LT5 on the 90-minute moving above spot as the first
indication!).
In checking to make sure all of this isn’t too out of the ordinary, we can check the BTC/VX
composite chart, which agrees with VoEx on two fronts:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of               2025-10-27 to 2025-10-31
   1) The first is that downside is still expected (LS is producing bearish candles), and
   2) It is about a month out.
If we map the time between LS switching to bearish and the VX spikes, we find ~40 days. In
extrapolating this to current times we see that this places a VX spike expectation at or around
Friday 11/22/2205! So, indeed, about a month out.
In the mean time, its likely that things will progress in a bullish fashion and appear bullish but so
long as VoEx remains within the Propagation Zone and LS on BTC/VX remains bearish, the
outlook will remain: this is just an intermission to the main show, which will be commencing
around the end of November.
So, a quick chat but things seem to be pretty familiar and so there’s no reason to beat a dead
horse more than you have to!

Likely turbulent upside for the next month or so with return to downside on the horizon.
Happy Trading,
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2025-10-27 to 2025-10-31
