                                   Weekly Chat 09/16/2024


                                          Main Points



    -    VoEx-daily has risen rapidly back into stability on $SPY and $QQQ. VoEx itself no longer
        resides within the Propagation Zone.
    -   Hedging environments are supportive and in a vanna-stable orientation.
    -   Put-selling is present but uninspiring once-more.
    -   Gamma squeezes are decreasing but GTM remains negative.
    -   LDPM/S suggest bullish conditions but with worsening liquidity.
    -   Overall, reversion back to bullish outlook, tempered with caution about sparse liquidity.

                                           SUMMARY



           Last week saw VoEx-daily move into the Propagation Zone for $SPY and
           $QQQ once-more, and unlike last time, VoEx itself has joined them by
           exiting the Propagation Zone. This is against expectations!

           Nonetheless, the hedging environment seems well-poised to offer a gentle
           up-draft in the market, unless IV should get too low. This vanna-stable
           orientation has a traditionally choppy-to-flat week associated with it,
           should IV move around too much.

           Put-selling remains near-zero, with some activity noted throughout the
           week. Perhaps worth keeping an extra eye on this week, as IV may play a
           reasonable role in the price-action.

           Gamma squeezes have decreased, suggesting some stability returning to
           the market; despite this, GTM is negative.

           So, all-around it seems things want to be bullish, but all have some
           tempering associated with them.

           Cautious bullish outlooks abound, sprinkled with some disappointment in
           the aspect of an enticing downside slowly fading away.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       09/16/2024
                                            DETAILS




Hello everybody!
Last week, some crazy person suggested going short (something about VoEx), and, unfortunately
for them (definitely not us, heh) the week disobliged by way of $SPY moving categorically in the
opposite direction to the tune of 4.01%, while $QQQ moved a casual 5.94%.
Again, with large moves, let’s check out the percentages as a function of EPR. The numbers are
impressive, so let’s pay the respect they deserve with a table:



       Stock           Realized Move (%)       Expected Limit (%)      Ratio


       $SPY                      4.01            1.81                          2.21

       $QQQ                      5.94            2.77                          2.14



Wowza! The market moved twice as much as that very-same market was expecting to move!
Let’s check out these moves with the heatmaps:




Curious!
Of note, it seems that $SPY was able to absorb the local and diffuse selling pressure quite well.
In fact, $SPY absorbed so much selling pressure, let’s, for the first time ever, start our
investigations not with VoEx!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        09/16/2024
How dare you
We will do no such thing.
Starting as usual with VoEx:




Of particular note is VoEx-daily’s rapid movement back into Stability. This time, unlike last, we see
VoEx itself has risen out of the Propagation Zone therealongside, rather than continue to reside
therein.
This has the ring of a “bull trap” as before, but less-so now that VoEx is done mopping around.
Some continued caution as VoEx reaches for Stability - but it seems that already the data look as
though our initial assessment of continued downside might be off, and conditions have
sufficiently changed.
Let’s keep looking; next up, $QQQ:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          09/16/2024
Much-the-same! VoEx-daily has moved very rapidly into Stability, just like on $SPY. Yet, just-like-
not-on-$SPY we see VoEx is still hovering at the Propagation Zone-line.
For now, it seems that things are starting to look bullish!
In that vein, let’s extend our anticipations tentatively into the bullish direction, and see where that
might land us within the hedging environments:




Poised to offer a nice updraft it would seem!
This updraft looks promising – except if $QQQ lowers its IV too much. In which case, things look
slightly less promising. This vanna-stable orientation has a propensity of producing little “eddy-
current” markets. In technical fashion, I illustrate:




Given the market’s inclination to pair [$+] with [IV-], the usual “flow” to this pattern is an initial [$+,
IV-], then a bit of [$-, IV+] as selling pressure enters, which works to [$-, IV+], and round-and-round
the market goes.
With the market’s current weakness, I would venture that during the [$-, IV+] part of the cycle
(should it manifest) will be the most likely to test our confidence in reducing our view further from
a “bull-trap likely” mindset.
Calendar spread into a short iron condor? Maybe!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                               09/16/2024
Moving on to our friends, we see that little put-selling is occurring again (vis-à-vis à data reports;
the macro report is slightly broken right now for some reason! So, no graphs for now. I’m working
on figuring out where the DLP functionality suddenly went off to).

$SPY’s weekly dealer long put was up a modest 16% this week, with $QQQ trailing slightly at 15%.
These numbers exist but they are not quite titillating, as we discussed before.
However, so-far, it would seem that our put-selling friends have either moved-on to other
strategies (without consulting us, aggravatingly) or they continue to find the overall market-
conditions unappealing to selling puts.
Do you agree? I think I agree. I wouldn’t sell any puts at the present.
Moving on slightly, let’s look at LDPS and LDPM.
First up, is a look at $SPY on the Daily with LDPM set to WMA (weighted-moving average). This
view I like when I want a simple “support-line” style of LDPM.




With this, we can see that the latest bearish bounce tested LDPM-89 and since, conditions have
become bullish while liquidity has worsened.
With some handwaving, this suggests an eager bid moving northward to meet an organic (or
strategically distant) ask1.




1
 Consider the situation of [$+] where the eager bid is meeting an organic ask. If at first liquidity is said to be “good”,
then the price movement upwards should be well sustained and gentle. Conversely, if price is appreciating and we
can see liquidity decreasing, this suggests that the organic ask is wearing thin against an eager bid. Ideally this might
seem all-fine-and-dandy, but it begs the question “what happens when the eager bid stops being eager”? Or more
specifically: what happens when the organic bid becomes the liquidity supplier?

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                            09/16/2024
If we take a peek at the Dashboard, and toggle the Short-Ratio and the Volume, we should be able
to see this in these data as well. If the market is essentially being “moved” via either an organic
ask, then as the price moves up, we should see relative shorting increase as the shorts work to
move the price up.
Below is just that, with a simple-moving-average applied with a lookback of 5:
                                                       And so here we see the relative amount of
                                                       shorting increasing on $SPY as the market
                                                       was inundated with purchasing support
                                                       from the hedging environments.
                                                       Curious! If we toggle the data to “Percent-
                                                       difference” we can see that the rate-of-
                                                       change for the short-ratio (with the same
                                                       5-day lookback) was 0.0514, whereas
                                                       volume was 0.0007.
                                                       This suggests that the short ratio grew
                                                       ~15% faster than the volume fell.

                                                       The concern this brings up is “what
                                                       happens when the eager bid stops being
                                                       eager”?

                                                       Supposing those shorting $SPY presently
                                                       are still short when the ask is no longer
                                                       supplying the liquidity, then the ask will
                                                       have to move down to the bid for liquidity!
                                                       Convenient for those who may wish to re-
                                                       purchase at a lower price point!


But – all of this may not transpire; should purchasing support still be readily supplied via the
hedging environment, then those shorting will have continued liquidity to do so.
The ideal, for them at least (the shorters) is that eventually the bid stops coming to their door-
step – but if they keep doing such a good job of it, that might not happen!
The take away? These data also suggest tenuously bullish outlooks (but offer a slightly different
rationale).
An aggressive trader might jump on the early signs of a large upwards move, while the prudent
watcher may wait for VoEx to settle, and, ideally, for put-selling to return!
A complicated market-of-late.
Happy trading,
Justin!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        09/16/2024
