                                  Weekly Chat 09/25/2023


                                         Main Points


    -   VoEx is demonstrating continued instability with significantly deep values;
    -   The Hedging Environments for $SPY and $QQQ are opposite one another with $SPY’s
        demonstrating support in the event of a $-/IV+ move, while $QQQ’s demonstrates
        additional selling pressure;
    -   DLP behavior for $QQQ has experienced a rapid growth without similar behavior noted
        on $SPY; some concern for misguided rationale from our DLP-friends;
    -   MWGS data is bearish with an increase in gamma squeezes noted, along with
        continued negative GTM (revised) prints;
    -   𝑉𝑉 2 is showing continued growth of data within the Propagation Zone market-wide;
    -   The Inhibition-Propagation ratio demonstrates continued movement towards a net-
        Propagation-Zone-market.
    -   Prudency suggests bracing for continued downside.



                                         SUMMARY



          VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ are reminiscent of the “up-turn” phase of VoEx
          Coiling which suggests some bullish behavior in the near future, however
          this outlook is tempered against the erratic nature of VoEx itself, along
          with its current location within the P.Z.

          Investigating liquidity through the Hedging Environments suggests the
          market was inundated with an eager ask throughout the week, with the
          bid-side of the book being the liquidity supplier.

          $SPY does provide reasonable purchasing support in the event of a $-/IV+
          move but this is balanced against $QQQ’s even more reasonable selling
          pressure.

          MWGS data is bearish with continued GS growth along with GTM showing
          continued flow of gamma squeezes into the market being expected.

          Overall, things look uneasy and without merit for bullish thoughts.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    09/25/2023
                                                      DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with the notion that things didn’t look quite right in the market and that
something was brewing.
It would appear that the market did in fact have something brewing for us as $SPY landed -2.92%
down for the week, along with $QQQ mustering a -3.48% week-over-week move.
This week, the main questions1 are:
    1) Should there be concern for a mean reversion, following a 71% greater-than-weekly-EPR
       move for $SPY and a 57% such move for $QQQ; or
    2) Is the downside to continue forthwith?
To start things off, lets look at the severity with which the market manifested its downside last
week via the hedging environments:




With an utter disregard for decency not seen since I wasn’t awarded the spelling bee
championship title in 5th grade, we see the purchasing support introduced into the market proved
to be of little consequence for the price-action throughout the week – however, this doesn’t mean
we can’t glean any additional information for this behavior.
For instance, in looking to see how liquidity and volatility were affected this week (that is, in a
week of spot-down but abundant purchasing-support), it is noted that IV rose on average about
5% per day throughout the week, but LDPM-Vol2 decreased 1.69% on average throughout the
week.


1
  French for “questions”.
2
  Liquidity-Dependent Price Movement – Volatility (LDPM-Vol) is a measurement of volatility through the lens of
liquidity by re-arranging LDPM slightly. It gives a non-option-dependent view of volatility status (and by extension,
liquidity)

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                         09/25/2023
                                             Quick Recap




Organic is the group of market participants that are seeking to extend or maintain the profitable
conditions for their side of the book. That is, an organic bid will seek to purchase low (in order to
sell high later on). Thus, the organic bid, perhaps slightly counter-intuitively, will work to push the
price lower as the bid seeks to buy at discount (and thus, will work to push the price lower).

An organic ask will do the opposite; as someone with shares, their win-condition is selling higher
than they purchased the shares for. Thus, we can consider them a bullish force as they will work to
raise their ask in order to ensure the highest profitability possible.
Organic bids and asks are considered price sensitive because, as we saw, their motives and actions
are dependent on the price.
Eager market participants comprise both price sensitive parties and price insensitive parties.
An eager bid or ask is one that is looking to transact in such a way that they are compelled to meet
their respective counterparty to transact, regardless of profitability. This can be either due to
urgency (price sensitive) or hedging (price insensitive).
The performance, and subsequent consequences of, the eager parties are dependent on where,
then, they must meet their counterparties, or in other words, the eager parties transact at the
liquidity source as that is where it is most expedient to transact.
Thus, if there is an eager bid and the bid has liquidity (the bid is determining where things run
smoothly), this eager bid will provide additional bearish performance as it works to chew through
the “bottom of the book” along with the residing organic bid.

Conversely, if there is an eager bid and the ask has liquidity (the ask is determining where things
run smoothly), this eager bid will provide additional bullish performance as it works to chew through
the “top of the book” where the organic ask is located with liquidity, and as such, it is most expedient
to transact at.
So, we can see, that in determining the relative balance of these forces, it can be quite helpful to
know the liquidity status currently present.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           09/25/2023
This means that despite the rise in IV throughout the week, we can see from LDPM-Vol that real
liquidity increased. A curious phenomenon for a red week!
From our recap on the preceding page, knowing that liquidity improved with the aforementioned
circumstances, suggests that liquidity didn’t deteriorate – and if liquidity didn’t deteriorate during
a 3%-down week, this means there must have come from somewhere !
So, where was this liquidity? Well – let’s do some quick brain stuff and play:




[Note: Although the following method isn’t exact, it serves as a good rule-of-thumb one can utilize
to answer this question.]
Consider that if the bid has liquidity, then this means that transactions occur most easily at the
bid, and if the ask has liquidity, then this means that transactions occur most easily at the ask.
The consequence of this orientation is that if there is an organic ask, and the ask has good
liquidity, then things are running smoothly at the ask, which will compel the price northward, and
liquidity status (so long as there is sufficient “balance of forces”) will not deteriorate.
But, if there is an organic ask and the bid has liquidity, then the organic ask will meet resistance
towards moving upwards as things only transact “smoothly” at the bid – which, if it is an organic
bid, will cause a “liquidity vacuum” between the two sides of the book as the organic ask looks to
set higher exit-points and the bid looks to set lower entry-points). This, consequently, works to
decrease liquidity (as things are not running smoothly anymore), which manifests as an increase
in LDPM-Vol.

With that in mind, we can quickly see that as the market dropped further into purchasing support,
liquidity improved (with an average improvement of 1.69% per day – not immense, but not
negative!). This means, that as a price insensitive bid entered the market things started to run
more smoothly than they previously were.
So, since we know that the price dropping implies that the ask was transacting at the bid (at the
lower price-point), and that as this was occurring, liquidity was improving, this tells us that:
   1) The bid has liquidity (albeit, just-so), and
   2) The ask was eager.
We know that the ask was eager, or rather, our napkin-calculations suggest the ask was eager,
because an organic ask would resist moving downwards to meet liquidity at the bid, and thus,
we should see an overall decrease in liquidity status. Yet – that’s not what we see!
As the price dropped, and ask continued to absorb the market, we see that the determining factor
in how smoothly the ask was being absorbed seemed to be dependent on how much purchasing
support was being introduced.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           09/25/2023
In other words: this week’s price action was heavily dominated by an eager ask - and a rather
robust one at that. So robust, that things started running more smoothly once the price insensitive
bid entered the market, which allowed more eager ask to transact, which made things run more
smoothly, etc.etc.
The main concern here is that a dominating eager ask will move down to the bid with zeal if that
bid happens to be the liquidity-supplier (which it seems to be); an eager ask + organic bid + bid-
liquidity is a recipe for drastic downside3.
Pivoting slightly, in investigating these data, I wanted to see how the change in LDPM-Volatility
affects the future change in price for $SPY, so I cooked up the data and took the average daily
change in LDPM-Volatility for 10 days and compared it to the average daily future change in price
over the next 10 days:

The results4 are on the right: we
can see that as the average daily
change in LDPM-Vol increases, the
anticipated future change in price
over the next 10 days becomes
progressively more negative and
more spread out.
These data align with our
expectations:        as     liquidity
diminishes, things are typically not
running well, and $SPY tends to
respond with both an increase in
the range of price-action (the dots
spread out more as you move to
the right), and with an overall trend
of negative price action.

The change in LDPM-Vol suggests a negative outlook (albeit, just-so) for the next 10-days ahead
(5-day lookahead is just below 0).
We can extend this analysis further slightly by quickly looking at what the change in LDPM-
Volatility values were 10-, and 5-days prior (next page).




3
    Exercise left to the reader.
4
    Data utilized are from $SPY from 2018-01-01 to Present.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        09/25/2023
                                                             We can quickly see that things have
                                                             been “heating up” somewhat in a rather
                                                             quickly.
                                                             Curious data, perhaps worth keeping an
                                                             eye on, but I think we can move on.




Economists HATE this one simple trick:
Starting as usual with VoEx, I find myself angsty – again.




The recent extreme movements into the Propagation Zone are relatively unheard of for $SPY and
$QQQ.
It goes without saying that these behaviors are clearly unstable, and as such, unstable indices
should be expected.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         09/25/2023
In raking my brain for reasons to get out of bed what these data may mean, I couldn’t help but
remember the Weekly Chat from 2023-08-28, wherein it was hinted by someone that $QQQ’s VoEx
looked reminiscent of VoEx Coiling:




Well, from that day VoEx moved (as we can see) into the Inhibition Zone for a brief BUPO, and fell
back into stability along with a net-move of 3.85%. Not too shabby.
This idea came into my head because – well – gosh darn if it doesn’t look like another round of
VoEx coiling might be forming.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       09/25/2023
The concern is, however, that this coiling is still in its “infancy” (that is to say, the “up-side” of the
coiling isn’t really there yet – just the apex), and so for now, we are simply left with a deeply deep
VoEx within the Propagation Zone for both $SPY and $QQQ.
That is to say, although there exists some reminiscence regarding potential VoEx Coiling – until
VoEx completes its journey into Stability, I find prudency on the side of anticipating continued
decline.

Moving from VoEx towards the Hedging Environments, things don’t become more cheery:




With downstream ($-/IV+) selling pressure located in the immediate proximity on $QQQ, this does
little to reinforce the idea of a “mean reverting week”.

Although $SPY’s hedging environment is more supportive, there is concern that given the lack of
price-action-support the recent purchasing support has provided, along with the selling pressure
on $QQQ, the purchasing support might once again fail to supply the market with price-directing
influence.
In this vein, I think it will be important to watch the hedging environments closely in the event of
a spot-up Monday; should $QQQ make its way into purchasing support since the combined
purchasing support from $SPY and $QQQ may work to give us that “mean-reverting week”.
Lofty goals perhaps.

Otherwise, I think recent history has demonstrated the price-directing influence incoming price-
insensitive bid may have in the setting of an eager ask throughout the market, which may work to
dampen our goals somewhat.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                              09/25/2023
For $SPY and $QQQ the Hedging Environments’ differences may have something to do with the
large discordant behavior of the put-sellers:




With a rather large show-of-force, $QQQ put-sellers have entered the battle with a uniquely curious
1,815% increase in retail sold-puts as they bet on a brighter $+/IV- week a head.
This is behavior that one would relish to see in order to acquire a bullish outlook: the mark-of-the-
bottom as delivered by our put-selling friends, but this behavior introduces some questions:
   1) Why weren’t puts get sold on $SPY as well?
   2) Did put-selling occur in order to anticipate mean-reversion for the week ahead or is there
      a genuine bullish outlook?

Ultimately, I find these questions, along with the other data prints both seen and to-be-seen,
sufficient to, dare I say it, suggest that our friends might be wrong.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          09/25/2023
         Consider, for example, the most recent spikes in DLPs on 2023-06-26 and 2023-08-21 as
         compared to the current environments we currently find them in5:

Date         VoEx                            LDPM (as measured on                 LDPM-LL (as                 Change in Price
                                             daily timeframe) 6                   measured
                                                                                  on daily timeframe)

2023-06-26   BUPO-state                      Bullish (Close > LDPM-89)            Bullish (LDPM-LL > 0) 6.14% to peak (T+24)

2023-08-21   VoEx Coiling reached Bullish (Close > LDPM-89)                       “Weak Bullish”7               3.78% to peak (T+9)
             stability on this date.

2023-09-22   VoEx within P.Z.                Bearish (Close < LDPM-89)            Bearish (LDPM-LL <                       -
                                                                                    0)




         These differences aren’t particularly insignificant.




         5
           It should be noted that these increases in DLP behavior were seen on both $SPY and $QQQ as well.
         6
           Personal preference but I use the LDPM-Fib set up and use LDPM-89 on the daily as the definitive “bearish” or
         “bullish” crossover.
         7
           See Weekly Chat 2023-07-21 for explanation of “Weak Bullish”

         Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                      09/25/2023
Although our put-selling friends are typically well-timed, I find these changes in the environment
too be too significant to
reasonably       assume
success themfore, and I
will need confirmation
of both price-action and
the data in order to have
full confidence in them
this time.
In other words: I think
they might be wrong!
Moving from DLPs to
MWGSs, we see there’s
been a 13% increase in
gamma squeezes in the
market over the past 5
days, a 15% over the
past 10 days, and a 25%
increase over the past
20-days.
With this, the growth-
trend remains positive,
and GTM (revised) is
showing continued flow
of        short-gamma
                                                                                          (gamma
                                                                              squeezes) into the
                                                                              market, setting up
                                                                              the expectation for
                                                                              continued growth
                                                                              in the number of
                                                                              gamma squeezes
                                                                              in the future.
                                                                              These data are, as
                                                                              it were, bearish.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       09/25/2023
Moving towards 𝑉𝑉 2 we see continued growth in the number of data prints within the Propagation
Zone:




Yet, still no noteworthy 𝑉𝑉 2 collapse! (some dipping now within the I.Z., but nothing too serious).
These data demonstrate continued migration of VoEx values throughout the market into the
Propagation Zone in a manner that is still “erratic” (I imagine it similar to $QQQ’s VoEx Coiling
vs. its VoEx during 2022).

Here, although there is minimal 𝑉𝑉 2 collapse yet, it still seems reasonable to consider these data
bearish due to the elevated 𝑉𝑉 2 values themselves (“overheating” is still present), and the
continued compilation of data within the Propagation Zone.
Lastly, before we leave off for the week, we come to the IPR (Inhibition-Propagation Ratio) that
we discussed last week:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          09/25/2023
The data seem to be inching close to the cross-over point with the Inhibition Ratio showing a 20-
day average of 0.52 – a measly 0.02 points away from there being more stocks inside of the
Propagation Zone than the Inhibition Zone for the past month!
So – overall, things are messy; a condition I thought I had grown used-to these past few months
in particular, but that it would seem there was still room for growth.

The data thus far are:
   -   VoEx is showing incredible levels of instability that out-rank even the instability noted prior
       to and during the 2020 correction; a slight potential for VoEx Coiling but its in its infancy;
   -   The Hedging Heatmaps demonstrate an unsupported $QQQ with a moderately supported
       $SPY;
   -   DLP behavior on $QQQ has increased rapidly but there is concern that this behavior may
       be erroneous and rests on a tenuous hope for mean reversion in the week a head;
   -   Gamma squeezes have grown and GTM demonstrates continued short gamma flow into
       the market; and
   -   𝑉𝑉 2 is showing continued growth within the Propagation Zone, with minimal collapse
       noted.
Overall, I think it is still prudent to bet against any long gains. Even in the event of a “mean
reverting” first-half of the week, to me the instability present won’t be fixed within a week.
Happy trading! Justin


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           09/25/2023
