                                  Weekly Chat 06/03/2024


                                         Main Points


    -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ have moved rapidly towards the Propagation Zone in a move
        against expectations.
    -   Hedging Environments find themselves more conducive to downside with imminent
        and local selling pressure for both indexes.
    -   Put-selling remains near-zero.
    -   MWGS data show a increasingly negative GTM with positive growth-rates once-more.
    -   Prudency cautions for prolonged downside.

                                         SUMMARY



          After an overall-red week, the data are not improved. The idea going into
          the week was that the budding downside was occurring in a tenuously
          stable environment, and as such, the dip could be bought.

          After this week’s showing, however, the data no longer suggest tenuous
          bullish ideologies but rather a more distinct turn to prior expectations of
          prolonged downside.

          VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ have turned sharply southward; almost entering
          into the Propagation Zone for both (and on both versions).

          The Hedging Environments are poised to offer immediate and diffuse
          selling pressure (unless $QQQ can manage even more IV-depreciation)
          with the consequence being predominately more selling pressure.

          The MWGS data show a modest decrease in gamma squeezes week-over-
          week but growth-rates are now positive again and GTM is printing deeply
          negative values; both indicative of incoming short-gamma, gamma
          squeezes, and ultimately, downside.

          VoEx Variance was clear of data from the Propagation Zone, however
          these data are returned, echoing sentiment from last month of a bull-trap.

          Taken together, these data suggest downside caution along with
          resumption of elevated risk for prolonged downside.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      06/03/2024
                                             DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we left off with an ominous side-eye aimed at the market due to VoEx’s indecision,
growing gamma squeezes, and continued lethargy from the put-sellers.
Well, the week passed, and although it was a short, week, there were some reasonable
movements with $SPY and $QQQ, who moved -0.39% and -1.58%, respectively.
These moves can be visualized below:




On somewhat of a note-worthy note, we can see $QQQ experienced a rather unique spot-down,
IV-down end-of-week move (30th to the 31st). If we get a little nerdy and crunch some numbers, it
would be found that spot decreased 0.18% while IV decreased 7.93%. Not only a reasonable
decrease in IV but also a reasonable decrease in IV coinciding with an unusual spot-IV
performance.

Perhaps worth keeping in mind as we peek at the data for next week.
So, whereas last week there was a budding, longer-term, bullish outlook that was being tentatively
nurtured within turbulent bearish waters, and after this week’s performance, perhaps it is a good
idea to do a quick review of the data with particular emphasis on the longevity of said outlook in
mind, and to see if it needs any adjustments.
The new
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see some concerning signs regarding our preëminent Bullish-
until-proven-otherwise (BUPO) ideology. Namely, the drastic movement outside of the Inhibition
Zone (which is, decidedly, not staying within the Inhibition Zone):




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       06/03/2024
There was a subtle sense of “dip then return to BUPO” in the air with last week’s chat, however,
this is now being brought into question with VoEx here, as for both $SPY and $QQQ, VoEx has
returned, quite rapidly, towards the Propagation Zone.
These movements erase our more confident stances towards $SPY joining $QQQ within the
Inhibition Zone, and makes way for a nascent $QQQ joining $SPY in the Propagation Zone (from
our conversation in 2024-05-20’s Weekly Chat: “Should VoEx for $SPY join $QQQ, then another
round of BUPO (of the Bullish variety) is all but confirmed, whereas if $QQQ’s VoEx reverses
course and re-join’s $SPY, then a bull-trap seems the reasonable interpretation.” )
These near-term downside expectations resonate through neo-VoEx as well:




With VoEx moving rapidly out of the Stable Zone the only remnants of bullish outlooks are the
just-so pause at the Propagation Line and VoEx being in stability (for $QQQ at least).
Otherwise, these data suggest near-term downside risk is both prominent and potentially growing
beyond initial considerations.
In continuing the discussion about the equivalency between “near-term dip” and “buy the dip”
diminishing, we can turn to the hedging environments who provide additional caution towards
increased downside:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     06/03/2024
                                                       On top here, we have $SPY, presenting a
                                                       very sell-dominant hedging environment
                                                       for the week ahead. With the crosshairs
                                                       being placed within immediate and all-
                                                       encompassing selling pressure, we can
                                                       see that the purchasing support doesn’t
                                                       kick in until $520 (about -1.40%).
                                                       The influence distribution for $SPY is
                                                       quite spread out – showing the greatest
                                                       probable outcomes for the week-to-be is
                                                       either large upside or large downside.

                                                       $QQQ, in a similar but more opinionated
                                                       boat, finds itself also with selling
                                                       pressure located all around (shame its
                                                       IV didn’t drop even more right before
                                                       close!) but rather than an identifiable
                                                       floor of purchasing support, $QQQ
                                                       presents only with diminishing selling
                                                       pressure.

                                                       The influence distribution for $QQQ is
                                                       much more congealed in its outlook:
                                                       with almost a completely negative
                                                       outlook.
However, should IV drop even more, $QQQ will be supplied with reasonable purchasing support
– for what its worth (and for as long as IV can maintain any decreased state).
Taken together, the two heatmaps almost “cancel” each other out – whereas $+/IV- brings selling
pressure on $SPY, it brings purchasing support on $QQQ; and whereas $-/IV+ (eventually) brings
purchasing support for $SPY, it brings only selling pressure and neutrality for $QQQ.
Sounds like quite the turbulent landscape – with said turbulence angled towards the downside.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     06/03/2024
Moving on, let’s see if our put-selling friends have noticed anything we haven’t and begun selling
anything:




Nada! Zilch! Nichts!
Looks like our put-selling friends are
still busy doing other things –
something to take note.
Zooming out some, the Market-Wide
Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data
suggests continued influx of short
gamma:
GTM     has     deepened     in    its
expectations of short-gamma flowing
towards the market (bottom graph);
and despite the overall decrease in
gamma squeezes noted throughout
the week (-9%-ish), we can see the
growth plot is still showing positive
growth rates (top graph).
This brings with it short-to-medium-
term bearish outlooks (remember:
GTM forecasts future MWGS-growth
which forecasts future price action;
so, it’s like a double-forecast, and as
such, extends into the 2-week to 1-
month time horizons).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       06/03/2024
Taken together, these aren’t quite the data prints I would expect for a “lets buy the dip”-dip, as the
data have turned quite bearish now. The data as we see them now:
   -   VoEx has begun moving rapidly towards the Propagation Zone;
   -   Hedging environments are very opinionated and pointed towards the downside;
   -   Put-sellers are not acting as though this is the bottom; and
   -   MWGS data is showing continued growth and an even deeper, more negative GTM.
Thus, it seems like downside is the prudent bet for the week ahead, with emphasis on turbulence
as the, quite different and distinct, hedging environments between $SPY and $QQQ bleed into and
contest with one another.
Before moving on, let’s look at VoEx Variance –
You’ll remember from our last visit (2024-05-06), that the latest development was “where’d the
data in the Propagation Zone go?”. This question lead to the (then) budding idea of bullish
performance, where it was suggested that this data-disappearance was :
                                                  “
… Perhaps another nod towards bullish performance, but I am not wholly convinced that this
disintegrates prior anticipations (namely that of prolonged downside).
                                                  “
So, perhaps now it is time to re-evaluate the idea of “prolonged downside”. To do that, let’s take
a peek at VoEx Variance:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           06/03/2024
Data has returned back into the Propagation Zone! Another nod towards downside and one that
resonates with the aforementioned idea that prolonged downside may not yet be out of the
cards1.

So, all-in-all, potentially protracted downside plans with a tediously unstable market.


Happy trading!


Justin




1
 Admittedly tedious to constantly keep talking “the impending doom and gloom downside” but – for as long as the
data are messy and keep bringing that option into view, it seems prudent to talk about it!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                   06/03/2024
