Weekly Chat 2025-05-05


 Main                                                                                         Points



    -   VoEx-daily has stalled within Stability while VoEx has left the Propagation Zone.
    -   Gamma Hedging Environments showcase $SPY with diffuse purchasing support and
        $QQQ in a “delta-dominated” configuration with nearby significant selling pressure spot-
        up.
    -   DLP data is still zero.
    -   MWGS data show rapid and massive reduction in GS counts.
    -   LDPM/S analysis show conflicting data between the lower-, and high-timeframes.
    -   VoEx Variance is not supportive that the market’s bottom has been reached.
    -   Overall, evidence that the current bull-trap is quite robust but a bull-trap nonetheless.

           SUMMARY



           The developing bull-trap has moved market data which suggest the
           bottom is in, but the lack of confluence and standard-patterns typically
           shared between the data during market bottom’s bring this showing into
           question.

           VoEx has left the P.Z., stalling just short of $SPY and $QQQ. This suggests
           longer-temr bearish outlooks are no longer founded. The DLP data do not
           share this outlook, however, with DLP behavior remaining at zero.

           The MWGS data also showcase conflicting interpretations; whereas the
           large and rapid reaction in GS, such rapid declination is reminiscent of
           previous significant-bull trap performances.

           Whereas there is evidence in the VoEx Variance distribution graphs for
           migration towards stability, these data are not supported (as would be
           tradition) in the VoEx-Daily variance distribution graphs, nor is this
           interpretation with regards to the cycle these data observe.

           In short, the market looks to be trying to be bullish, and it be bending some
           things to make it look as such, but the data, in consequence, do not
           organically or harmoniously support this assertion, and so, prudency
           suggests the continuance of prior expectations: any bullish action is a
           bulltrap and downside will resume.

           To this end, there are signs that the bull-trap is set to test its limits in the
           week ahead – this suggests a future of volatility ultimating in downside.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                 2025-05-05 to 2025-05-09
 DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we left off with lofty-notions of a bull-trap performance. To that end, $SPY managed a
robust 2.93% move, while $QQQ managed a similarly impressive 3.44% move. A quick peek at the
Expected Price Ranges (EPRs) as calculated from last week’s data show a T+5 move for $SPY at
±2.45% and $QQQ at ±2.92%. These are largely in-line with the realized moves and so I think we
can forgo inscribing the infamous sigil of mean-reversion this week!
This means we can jump right to checking out the hedging environments and the market’s
movement through them last week:




Above we see such a thing!
Some clustering at the start of the week before the market decided to move in the up-and-to-the-
left direction. A curious sight, however, on $QQQ is that from the 2025-04-30 to 2025-05-01,
movement upwards (towards the wall of selling pressure) provoked quite an increase in IV.
Perhaps nothing too special but an observation, nonetheless.

This week, the goal is largely the same as last week: check on the health of the bull-trap and check
on the health of the bearish outlook at-large. Should anything seem remiss, we will have to figure
out what that means for the market’s dynamics, and if nothing seems remiss, we can go back to
ignoring the market until it capitulates.
So, let’s get started!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2025-05-05 to 2025-05-09
Getting Started Starts Now

Starting as usual with VoEx, we find a very interesting sight!




VoEx-daily seems to be convincing VoEx to join it within Stability! Both $SPY and $QQQ’s VoExes
have moved out of the Propagation Zone – which does put our longer-term downside
expectations on notice. In full fairness, VoEx hasn’t reached stability yet , and so there is still some
time for it to change its mind, but even still, VoEx isn’t one to engage in whimsical bounding to
and fro, and so, one must conclude that VoEx is indicating that a turn of tides is at least reasonably
within reach.

This brings into doubt the longevity of the longer-term downside expectations that have been
crafted recently, which, in turn, brings into question the longevity of the bull-trap under analysis –
it may be that the trap is dissolving like a phoenix into a bird of pure bullishness.

Even with the prospect of a bullish future, both short-, and long-term ones will have to contend
with the hedging environments, and so let’s take a peek at those:




The current environment is much-the-same as what we have seen. Except this time, $QQQ’s
selling pressure is, admittedly, quite a bit more proximal than before. Another curious change, for
$QQQ at least, is the strange pocket of purchasing support in the 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − direction that is peeking
above the rest of the purchasing support shelf. A fortuitous placement, should the market find
itself capable of reducing IV enough to partake.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                2025-05-05 to 2025-05-09
Overall, these are supportive for bullish flows in theory, but $QQQ’s robust selling pressure ceiling
suggests there will be a good amount of ask the market will have to chew through as $QQQ
appreciates (unless it can find itself inside of that nice little purchasing-support pocket!).
Moving onwards, let’s take a peek at our put-selling friends to see if they have any hopes in 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −
or $+ in the future ahead:




Nope! Still remarkably still put-selling activity found from the $SPY and $QQQ crowd! This is not
a usual showing for a market “bottom”. For instance, in just looking at one of the previous
bottoms, and then checking on the Macro Market as seen in hindsight that represented the macro
markets at the end of what-would-then-become known as the “bottom”, we can see how put-
selling behavior typically looks when a bottom has been identified by our financial overlords:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-05-05 to 2025-05-09
This, in contrast, is not quite what we see with the DLP data. This does muddy the waters, as it is
assumed that our financial overlords are well-connected to their own market predictions, and as
such, would be well-connected to the activity that would allow them to profit from their
predictions. If these assumptions are true, then the DLP behavior suggests that there is continued
minimal expectation for profitability in the [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] direction. An admittedly odd finding.
Moving onwards, we encounter the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data, which showcase
robust gamma squeeze reductions: over the past month, counts have dropped 45%; over the past
                                                  2-weeks, 27%; over the past week, a 13%
                                                  reduction in GS counts! These are pretty
                                                  robust, and we can see from the count-
                                                  graph (bottom panel, left) that counts are
                                                  now back to the ~1,000 average that the
                                                  market usually exists within.
                                                   These data, are, on the surface, bullish in a
                                                   way. Namely, they are bullish in that a low
                                                   GS count suggests minimal threat for a GS-
                                                   mediated market down-slide, and thus,
                                                   reduced bearish expectations. However,
                                                   such a rapid destruction of GSs is
                                                   reminiscent of 2025-03-10! In fact, it was
                                                   these data that provoked the creation of
the updated MWGS data, so let’s check them out below.
Checking out the modified MWGS data for the growth curves (below) which shows a similar
scene: the Predictive Count Curve (brownish-orange; PCC) is pointed downwards, suggesting that
the PCC algorithm is looking forward to continued reduction in price, but (!) notice the divergence
in the height of the PCC versus the height of the GS counts proper. Whereas we can see that the
counts are back to about
1,000, the PCC curve has
not returned to its more
baseline-level! In fact,
PCC is still as elevated as
it has ever been from this
view (which shares the
same timeframe as the
traditional MWGS data!)!

This     is     a    great
opportunity highlight of
the      benefit      and
difference      the   new
MWGS algorithms have
over the old: the space between the “pure” counts and the PCC “counts” is the momentum of the
growth! In other words, whereas the original growth curve (top graph, blue line) which is already
negative (as it only measures the change in the GS counts), the PCC graph is still lifted quite high


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2025-05-05 to 2025-05-09
because the `predictive` aspect of its design is showing a large expectation for continued count-
growth! In other words, the PCC from the modified MWGS data is showing the reduction, but said
reduction is far less in magnitude if you incorporate some predictive guesswork, suggesting that
“real counts” aren’t as low as they seem.
The PGC (predictive-growth curve; purple line) is showing that the breaks being applied to GS
growth (as evidenced by its negative existence) but curiously we can see that it is pointed at the
horizontally (meaning that the force of the breaks being applied is constant) or, if one is optimistic
for the return of a GS-dominated market, slightly positive since 2025-04-21! This means that there
is an ever-so showing in the data that the force being applied to the breaks is actually reducing.
But – maybe all this handwaving is just to starve off the growing expectation of the bottom having
been achieved and one should just take the data for face value: GS counts and growth appear to
be diminishing and so the outlook is technically and relatively bullish. (But let’s keep a close eye
on the PGC for the next day or two).

Keeping our view in the somewhat local environment, let’s check on LDPM/S for $ES and $VX to
see if we can divine a likely combination for $ and IV in the week head.
Starting with IV expectations:




A bit of a mixed bag, honestly! We have on the 90-minute (top-right), LDPM-L5 representing a
bullish organic bid support-floor at $22.40 but with bearish liquidity; this is overall bearish in
expectation (namely since bearish LDPS predisposes the odds towards LDPM-L5 failing) but
bullish in that we can clearly see there is an organic bid presently interested in bidding up $VX.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2025-05-05 to 2025-05-09
A similar scene is seen when we zoom out some on the 144-minute whereby LDPS is showing
bullish liquidity while testing LDPM-L5 – although not a bulltrap officially (price needs to be above
LDPM-L5 at least) it certainly isn’t further from a bull-trap than if LDPS was bearish!
Of particular interest may be that for both of the smaller timeframes, the 90-minute and the 144-
minute, the next ceiling (should a bull-trap manifest), appears to be at $27 (+20%ish). Perhaps a
benchmark to keep in mind should the market start bucking the forming bullish ideologies.

Zooming out more, we arrive at the 987-minute, which showcases a bear trap in pursuit of the
next organic bid at around $14.50 (-35%ish), which is shared in proximity to the floor see on the
1-Week view at about $12ish.
Taken together, this paints a picture of $VX being free to move between $27ish and $13ish
without much surprise, which the current configurations suggesting movement towards the
$13ish area as the most likely.
If we map these changes into the hedging heatmaps (the -35%ish reduction in IV), we get some
interesting complications:




In pursuit of such reductions in $VX, should the IV-bleed cross into $SPY, it will push the index
well beyond the boundaries of purchasing support (even if just reaching for gamma neutrality in
the 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − direction!) and into selling pressure. This awkward situation is balanced by $QQQ’s
fortuitous destiny by way of highlighting the benefit of the little pocket-of-purchasing may play in
supporting an 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −future.
Where there is a will, there is a way, but the market may have an interesting time finding its way
in the week ahead, should such aggressive reductions in IV be pursued. Let’s now turn to the $ES
charts to see to which they are leaning.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-05-05 to 2025-05-09
These are not wholly-bullish or bearish prints!
On the top-right (90-minute), we see bullish liquidity bugging the organic bid at LDPM-L5. This is
concerning given the large liquidity gap below spot, which has an organic bid floor (LDPM-
L6(377); yellow line) about 4% down. This is still technically bullish but the close proximity and
longevity of spot “riding” LDPM-L5 suggests that said organic bid is being routinely tested –
something I don’t think organic bids are usually prone to do.
Zooming up and out, we see on the 144-minute that the data are printing bearish prints, which
encourages movement down to test the organic bid at LDPM-L5 (~-2.50%). The expectation is
that LDPM-L5 should hold but if liquidity continues bearish, then the next downwards target is
$5,350ish at LDPM-L6(377).

Zooming out more, we see more conflicting data to the idea that the bottom has bottomed, mainly
the identification of a bull-trap. Said bull-trap appears to be approaching a ceiling, as defined by
LDPM-L6 at ~$5,800ish. Rejection from said ceiling would see price move back to LDPM-L5 at
about $5,300-ish (-7%ish).
On the final and highest view (the 1-Week; bottom right), we see the bear-trap we’ve been
monitoring underway. From this view, it appears that, despite the price appreciating after
bouncing off of LDPM-L2(987), we see LDPS is maintaining its bearish outlooks as price
approaches LDPM-L6(377) at $5,800ish.
Taken together, it appears on the higher-timeframes, we have two ceilings identifiable at the same
general spot ($5,800). The first ceiling is seen on the 1-Week view as price tests the LDPM-L6
ceiling during a bear-trap (without the return of bullish liquidity!) and the second is seen on the



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2025-05-05 to 2025-05-09
987-minute as the ceiling to be challenged during a developing bull-trap. These data do not share
the outlooks provided initially by VoEx, and the MWGS data but rather show the market in the
thralls of a still-developing bull-trap.
All together, this paints a market that is trying to look bullish but all-the-while, the foundations of
said attempts appear to be undecided. Let’s take a peek at the VoEx Variance data to see if we
can find some clarity:




On the top, we see the variance distributions for VoEx-daily, which showcase the market still well within
Phase 2 (since it showcases the bearish distribution and the most recent data have continued their down-
and-to-the-left flattening.

But, if we look at the bottom, where VoEx proper is displayed, we find the market is in phase 3! This is the
first showing that the bottom is approaching! But – it is wrong. Well, not wrong, but premature. Take a
look for yourself. On the next page, is a snippet of the market from ~Nov 2021, to Mar of 2023, along with
just some snippets pointed out. The point here is to just look at the general flow of the data through the
year to get a gist for the differences in behavior between VoEx and VoEx-daily distributions.

Have a peek:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat               for the week of                 2025-05-05 to 2025-05-09
Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat   for the week of   2025-05-05 to 2025-05-09
Some noteworthy findings include:

    1) Things do tend to go in `progression` via the cycle. That is to say, it is not often that you see the
       market jump over a phase.
    2) The market’s distributions have a general pattern of “gathering and melting” as they progress
       through the phases.
    3) The recent right-tail appearance within the VoEx Variance distributions seems to suggest phase
       III in the market has started. But notice that:
             a. VoEx-daily’s distributions do not agree. This, historically speaking for our little snippet, is
                 not typical. Typically, you can see that VoEx-daily leads VoEx temporally as well as its
                 observability through the pattern.
    4) Prior episodes of right-tail’s popping up within VoEx’s distributions that indicated that start of
       Phase IV were accompanied be the associated melting-and-smoothing-out in the rightward
       direction (observe the VoEx Variance distribution’s behavior from the Phase III to just after the
       Phase IV start in the bottom graph, notice that the peaks gather (just prior to Phase III’s box), and
       then phase III see’s the distributions melt and start leaning to the right. Phase IV comes, marked
       by the collection of the distributions within stability. From there, the market melts again, and re-
       affirms further into Stability.

In short: I think these data are more reminiscent of a very strong bull-trap more than an organic showing
of bullish VoEx Variance. This is mainly supported by the analysis of historical behavior which suggests the
VoEx-daily (top graphs) Variance distribution graphs should ideally be in Phase III (characterized by a
flattening out and migration towards the right), but we see that instead, we have behavior much more
reminiscent of phase I (which suggests the market is bobbing between phase I and phase II, i.e.: still quite
in its bearish phase).

In shorter short: I’m torn!
On one hand, we have VoEx-daily, showcasing spike-like performance that is now threatening to bring
VoEx up into stability with it. Should this occur, any downside expectations are to be immediately
reversed. This is not what was expected but should it occur, there’s naught to do.
But – in considering that this essentially means the market’s bottom is in, in checking in with the DLP
behavior, we find absence! This is highly unusual, should there be general consensus in our financial
overlord’s sphere’s of such profitability (namely in the [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] direction.
Additionally, when we look at LDPM/S for $VX and $ES, the data there are even mixed: the lower-order
timeframes are showing an eerie bullish showing, with LDPM ceilings distantly gapped above to provide
a level of testing, but the lower timeframes show a market taking a breather. $ES, perversely, is inversely
related: the lower-order timeframes are showing tenuous bullish flows while the high-timeframes show
a proximal end to the developing bull-trap and the lack of return of bullish liquidity after testing a deep
LDPM (on the 1-Week view)! These data also embolden VoEx’s lack of committance to Stability.

Taken together, I think the recent bullish performance has worked to “force” some of the data to appear
bullish but overall the market does not paint a picture cohesive enough to confidently remove downside
expectations on the longer term.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                for the week of                  2025-05-05 to 2025-05-09
On the short-term, LDPM/S with the key levels noted above will be helpful in guiding the weekly and daily
outlooks.
Should, during the week, VoEx-daily fall back into P.Z., then we can be confident that, indeed, all of this
has been a fever dream and the market is returning to downside (this should then be accompanied by a
rapid return of GSs, as we saw before).
However, if during the week, we find LDPM/S favoring $VX reduction and $ES incremention, then ideally
we should see VoEx enter stability, and DLP activity pick up to give a really good first impression.

Tricky market’s beget tricky data it seems! And this tricky market is suggesting the current bull-run is
approaching a check-point – rejection returns us back to our pre-established expectations, while
admittance will force some rapid paradigm shifts.
Good luck and happy trading!



Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat               for the week of                2025-05-05 to 2025-05-09
