                                  Weekly Chat 05/01/2023


                                         Main Points


    -   VoEx has rebounded back into the IZ,
    -   This is typically associated with bull runs,
    -   Hedging environments are unsupportive in a $-/IV+ movement but demonstrate a path
        for gamma neutrality with a $+/IV- move.



                                          SUMMARY


          The market seems primed to end its bull-run but VoEx suggests that
          something is keeping the bull train moving along.

          Despite the spike into the PZ, which we were eagerly expecting, VoEx
          quickly returned to the IZ after two days of price appreciation.

          In review of historical precedence, it is seen that this VoEx behavior is
          associated with near-term bull runs but more interestingly, it seems that
          this VoEx behavior is relatively confined to pre-correction periods in the
          market.

          The hedging environment is unsupportive in a $-/IV+ manner and the
          influence distributions are predominately bearish but there is an avenue
          for $+/IV- via gamma neutrality.

          DLP behavior is ramping back up, suggestive that big money has an inkling
          for further price appreciation.

          GTM is printing bearish prints and that’s all we’ll say about it here.

          Overall, bullish outlooks until VoEx decides to journey back south again.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        04/24/2023
                                                 DETAILS




Hello everyone!


What an exciting week - $SPY moved a combined 4.7% with a net movement of +0.79% -
we find that our bearish expectations for the week ahead (that of a negative move for the
market) were thwarted. But, if our dreams are to be crushed, they should at least be done
so in spectacular fashion like we saw this week.
So, let’s dive into the data, how the week progressed, and then look towards the future.
A circle of infinite radius is a straight line
The absurdity of last week is easily reflected in $SPY and $QQQ’s heatmaps:




Whenever heatmaps become hard to annotate, you know something interesting is
happening.
We can see that we coursed along as expected, digging down ever deeper into selling
pressure – things seemed to be going according to plan. Plans were proceeding so well
that by Tuesday, $SPY had moved more than its weekly allotted EPR – sitting at a close
of $404.36 with the weekly lower EPR bound of $405.68. All things seemed right in the
word for continued downside.
But then – it happened.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                04/24/2023
What is it ? I don’t know! Let’s investigate what that something was that paved the way
for Thursday and Friday to be not only green but very green 1.
To start, let’s look at
Wednesday’s        data
prints.
By Wednesday, $SPY’s
VoEx had already fallen
into the Propagation
Zone and Wednesday
didn’t change that
much:
                                                            The hedging environment for $SPY was
                                                            much less “unremarkable” than $SPY’s
                                                            VoEx
                                                            With the emergence of not only
                                                            purchasing support located $-/IV+ we,
                                                            also see $SPY ended the day smack-dab in
                                                            the middle of purchasing support.
                                                            The consequence of this newfound
                                                            purchasing support (seen on the left) can
                                                            be readily seen if you look closely.
                                                In isolation, the hedging environment’s
                                                sudden change was a bit surprising but I
didn’t necessarily thin that the rest of the week should be green – but rather perhaps the
downturn in the market would be dampened somewhat for the remaining part of the
week.
There was, however, one more potent data print that suggested this bullish turn was a bit
more robust than just adding some purchasing support in the event of continued
downturn: Dealer Long Puts.




1
 Check out Conway’s tweet thread about the data! It’s a great recap and I wish I could just copy paste it here.
https://twitter.com/ConwayYen/status/1652022035839631377

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                        04/24/2023
With a quick jump in DLPs, it was clear that the market was thinking either IV was going
to plummet or the market’s price was going to rise; it would turn out that our impeccably-
timed-DLP-friends hit the nail on the head again with a 2-day rise in $SPY of 2.8% and a
decline in IV of 20%. Not too shabby!
This does, however, lead us to a bit of a pickle leading into this week’s data – namely: do
we maintain our bearish outlook or is there sufficient evidence to suggest the bull-run’s
end may not be over yet?
Let’s dive in and find out.
In a group of just 57 people, there’s a 99% probability two of them share the same birthday
Let’s start by taking a moment to ponder at VoEx:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                 04/24/2023
VoEx seems to have juked us out. With a sudden dip into the PZ followed by an immediate
return to the IZ – this action seems antithesis to our expectation that VoEx would
invariably fall into the PZ (namely because of its inching towards the IZ), and then reside
there for awhile during a downturn, and slowly start to run back up – precisely the action
typically seen during bull runs.
This time, however, it didn’t. It did something rather unusual. So, let’s get started with:
What does this type of VoEx behavior mean? Have we seen it before and what happened?
This VoEx fake-out doesn’t occur often – even in $SPY’s VoEx below, we see that although
there are several large spikes and spike-like-complexes, it is rare to see VoEx spike in the
span of 3 days from the Inhibition Zone, to the Propagation Zone, and then back into the
Inhibition Zone.




We can see this in the highlighted regions above. Although a drastic move into the PZ
followed by a reversal isn’t too uncommon (nowadays), there are a few notable
differences between VoEx’s current behavior and past episodes:
   1) The first (left-most) VoEx Spike Complex (VSC) starts in the PZ and ends in the PZ;
   2) The second VSC persists inside of the PZ during the price’s downside and only
      returns once a recovery is signaled;
   3) The third VSC also extends its stay into the PZ.
However, in our current edition of VoEx doing whatever-it-feels-like-and-making-us-work-
harder, we see that the spike into the PZ was as swift as its recovery while transversing
several zones.
My brain start tingling – a sign that I was either having a thought or needed a snack. Had
I seen this type of behavior before? I think I had!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    04/24/2023
Thus began my task of haphazardly searching through past VoExs for similar episodes –
much without avail – I couldn’t find any in the recent VoEx “fossil records”. Was I
mistaken?
No! How dare you suggest.
I remembered I was looking at the wrong times! Let’s look at $SPY from sometime at or
around 2018 (left) and at or around 2020 (right):




On the left we see VoEx began behaving quite significantly deviant prior to the GFC
(thankfully or else we’d have to question VoEx’s efficacy) but we also see that during this
period of turbulence there were many times (well, a few but in relative terms, an
astronomical amount as these behaviors are quite rare) wherein VoEx was in the IZ and
suddenly spiked into the PZ only to very rapidly return.
The same goes for the right – although it seems there was so much inhibitory pressure
that VoEx only made it down into the PZ just prior to the start of the fall.
We see the same with $QQQ:




From these historical analogues we can see some trends:
   1) These VoEx behaviors are rare – in fact outside of the selected timeframes shown
      above, they do not present in the data.
   2) These data are typically associated with near-term bullish performance
   3) These data seem to be associated with large downside in the longer-term future.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                 04/24/2023
Now, does this suggest positive movement is likely in the time ahead? Yes.
Does it suggest that a massive correction is inbound?
Maybe.
It definitely suggests that the behavior we are starting to experience in the market is
uniquely unstable – a kind of instability that is only present prior to 2018’s correction and
2020’s correction.
However, we also see that in the run-ups to those prior corrections, it was more than the
single measly spike we have before us today – in fact, thankfully VoEx seems to remind
us that it will give us plenty of heads-up prior to any larger correction.
So, VoEx is telling us some interesting information this week:
   1) The anticipated end to the bull-run may have been a rug-pull and bullish
      continuance is likely,
   2) VoEx is starting to exhibit behaviors only typically seen prior to large corrections.
Although we will leave point 2 to be pondered with due time, for now it seems as though
the end of the bull run isn’t quite over.
[It is worth noting that the SNAP algorithm agrees! Bullish performance expected over the
next week but things get progressively more bearish from there.]
Do the other data agree?
Yes and no – a usual finding of late.
                                                           The hedging environments find
                                                           themselves      bereft       of
                                                           purchasing support - save for a
                                                           smidgen in QQQ’s below.
                                                           With strong selling pressure
                                                           located throughout, and with
                                                           the    influence     distribution
                                                           showing      a    predominately
                                                           negative outlook – it doesn’t
                                                           look as though the hedging
                                                           environments quite agree with
                                                           this      near-term       bullish
                                                           sentiment.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   04/24/2023
If one were still inclined to maintain their bullish outlook, they may well be pleased to see,
however, that there is quite a nice $+/IV- corridor of gamma neutrality that, should the
market find its way therein, would at least provide little resistance to the bullish run.
Also - another bullish
glimmer in the dark is
the rather large right-
sided tails in the
influence distribution.
So, although from the
vantage point of the
hedging environment,
downside is the most
likely outcome (because
the     peak    of   the
Influence Distribution’s
curves are in the red), it
would appear that we have a small but not-insignificant bullish run potential.
Moving towards the DLPs:




That’s a decent showing of bullish-support!
Historically, as we have seen, those-who-sell-puts tend to be very well-timed. There’s no
reason to suggest they aren’t this time either – thus giving us a bullish print.
The only truly discordant data print to a bullish run is MWGSC and GTM. With positive
GTM values (indicating anticipated growth of gamma squeezes in the future), and with
the current 5-day growth being positive (top graph, gold lined), these data are definitively
bearish.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    04/24/2023
In searching for a potential reason to this, I stumbled down a strange hole and I confused
myself again.
In an effort to reconcile my perpetual state of confusion with reality, I will impose it upon
you such that you are now also confused and thus reality is set back to “the norm”.
                                                           To do this, let’s look at some
                                                           confusing pictures.
                                                           I started with asking myself
                                                             “Why did you start tradin Is
                                                                                     there


                                                                  something     particularly
                                                           unique about GTM now versus
                                                           GTM before?” In other words, I
                                                           wanted to make sure I wasn’t
                                                           missing anything when it came
                                                           to GTM. To answer this, I looked
                                                           at the ~ raw ~ data. I wanted to
                                                           see if there was an association
                                                           with how GTM operated during
                                                           two different market conditions:
                                                             1) When       GTM     moves
                                                                  suddenly positive or
                                                                  negative
                                                              2)      When the net growth
                                                           of gamma squeezes was
                                                           positive (in a net negative
                                                           gamma market), or was
                                                           negative (in a net positive
                                                           gamma market).
                                                  To answer these questions, I
                                                  produced the following graph
wherein these moments (1) and (2) were magnified in their significance with some
unpleasant math:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   04/24/2023
Ooo. Aa. More spikes! (Why is it always spikes?)
There are some note-worthy features here:
   1) What are the spike complexes?
   2) Why is this metric declining into 2022 and rising into 2023 when 2022 saw
      predominate downside while, so far, 2023 has seen predominate up-side.
   3) Where did the spike complexes go in 2022?
   4) Do the spike complexes mean anything?
Although I suggested above I would point out some interesting features, you can see now
I really just presented you with the questions that I have – in hopes you can do the work
for me.
Buuut, until you take up the mantle, seeing as you won’t even read this until tomorrow,
which simply doesn’t much help me today, I suppose we could look at what happens at
or around those spikes, to get a general feel for what these data are telling us.
The first thing I did was simply plot lines at the points in time when these “spikes” (Why
is it always spikes?) occur. However, that wasn’t quite enough because as you can
imagine, there are four types of lines:



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                04/24/2023
      1) 2 Types depending on if GTM was positive or negative
      2) 2 Types depending on if the market was in a net negative or net positive gamma
         state
One the events were categorized into two groups:
   1) GTM is positive (bearish) and the market is in a net negative gamma state
   2) GTM is negative (bullish) and the market is in a net positive gamma state
I worked to graph the instances of when these spikes occurred while meeting the 2
conditions above, and a curious finding: there was only 1 group of lines that showed up:
the (1) group; for when GTM is negative (and spikes) and the market is in a net negative
state. You can see it below:




Well, that’s odd! It seems that these instances almost always precede downside! But
where were the other spikes? Did not such spikes occur during a negative GTM spike and
a net positive gamma environment? (A tangential finding is that we do not have one of
those spikey-events currently. In fact, we seem to just be finishing one up!)
There were some other interesting findings when peeling back the layers to the raw data
a bit more than I had when writing the primer up – let’s look at a few more curious images.
First, let’s do the same technique as before but let’s just overlay $SPY and expand our
horizon back some:

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                 04/24/2023
This raises even more questions! Why do these values rise and fall? Why is a 180-Day
Mean that is negative associated with choppy markets? Why was there a surge of
something in late 2020?
Okay – I’m getting confused again. Let’s instead look at the raw data but let’s start
controlling for certain market conditions. The first thing is let’s control for the relative
availability of the “gamma squeeze conditions”, i.e.: let’s start looking at how probable it
is that a gamma squeeze will occur:




Okay – a simple relationship would have been nice but we can work with this too.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  04/24/2023
   1) It appears when the 20-day “raw data” value rises – things go bad.
   2) Does it matter if this value is greater or less than zero?
   3) Why is it growing?
After peering down several hallways to glean an answer, I grasped at a small strand that
I thought, surly, would bring about at least one answer to this rabbit hole I threw myself
down into. I remembered that the number of gamma squeezes has been increasing
steadily since 2022! Could this be hidden somewhere in the data, and thus, making the
somewhat impressive beam of northward something that started in 2021-02-01 rise ever-
higher?
To check this, I simply standardized the values to the number of gamma squeezes – this
should remove the effects of an ever-creepingly-positive MWGSC and leave only the “real”
data behind. I graphed it below:




And this is where I decided to throw in the towel for this week! It is clear that a quick
journey into the more seedy underbelly of gamma and gamma squeezes in the market
produces far more questions than answers for right now.
Can we learn anything from these findings so far? I think there are a few preliminary take-
aways that will prove insightful and actionable for sure:
   1) Something odd is happening in the market
With regards to GTM specifically, I would be surprised if it maintains it positive viewpoint
for long – the data appear under the hood to be cooling off somewhat, and for now, lest
we start drooling again, we are going to leave it at that.
So – what can we say for the week ahead:


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  04/24/2023
   1) VoEx is suggestive of a “rebound” rally – in other words, it tricked us and we fell
      for it,
   2) DLP behavior is ramping up, a bullish finding,
   3) The hedging heatmaps appear to be non-supportive again but do provide a casual
      path for $+/IV- via gamma neutrality, and finally,
   4) GTM is printing bearish prints but things may be more complicated than that.
So, for now, I will return to a default bullish stance until VoEx decides to work it’s way
back into the PZ again for us but in the mean time, I am going to be paying close attention
to the many reminiscences that seem to be appearing the in the data between now and
late 2019.
Happy trading, Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                 04/24/2023
