                                 Weekly Chat 2026-05-04


                                       Main Points



       -   VoEx-daily is experiencing some notable moves while $SPY and $QQQ’s VoEx
           disagree.
       -   Gamma-Hedging heatmaps showcase continued persistence in providing selling-
           pressure.
       -   Market-wide gamma squeeze data are calmed.
       -   LS&T show prevailing bullish winds.

                                       SUMMARY



           The market looks poised to continue northward!

           There is some concern over the disagreement that is now fully
           manifest between $SPY and $QQQ, the result of which is $SPY
           stubbornly suggesting suspicious stakes: a bulltrap is neigh; while
           $QQQ thinks the music has just begun.

           The gamma-hedging heatmaps are poised to provide consistent
           selling pressure, but in the week’s prior, the market has absorbed
           such selling pressure quite well.

           The gamma-squeeze data show a lull in activity: GS counts remain
           largely the same, and the predictive models are still cooling off.

           The LS&T data also predominately showcase bullish outlooks.

           Thus, it seems the data are aligned and pointing up!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat       for the week of              2026-05-04 to 2026-05-09
                                              DETAILS




Hello all!
This week, the note will be rather short but thankfully, the data are on our side in its assistance in
pursuit thereof.
Let’s look at the heatmaps for the prior week:




It seems $QQQ was more inclined to swim around, as can also be noted in their respective week-
over-week changes: $SPY mustered 0.94%, while $QQQ flourished 1.53% upwards – not too
shabby!
Last week our main concern was early-turbulence with longer-term bullish ideations, this week,
let’s see if there’s anything to repudiate such mental machinations.

VoEx
Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




Our previous concerns have come to fruition as $SPY’s and $QQQ’s VoEx are becoming more
discordant: $SPY’s remains yet in the Propagation Zone, while $QQQ’s is well into the bullish side
of life. $SPY suggests a bull-trap, while $QQQ suggests bull-run.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2026-05-04 to 2026-05-09
Taking a look at the hedging heatmaps to divine any sense of direction, we find they favor $SPY’s
whereby selling pressure is abundant and local:




So far, the market has absorbed this ask quite well (these past few weeks) but the hedging
environment is definitely positioned to provide consistent downwards pressure.
In terms of the predictive data, we find the data was warming but so far failed to get hot, and so,
there’s not much to glean:




A recent up-shoot in the pGC (purple line) tantalizes evermore but until its positive, the default
outlook is that the market is still shedding gamma squeezes – just not as much as before.
This is noted somewhat in the raw counts, which shows a not-decreasing amount of Gamma
squeezes:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2026-05-04 to 2026-05-09
For now, things don’t scream imminent issue and so let’s not make any molehill-mountains.
Moving on to the liquidity view, we find:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of        2026-05-04 to 2026-05-09
The 90-minute shows the return to bullish liquidity and an organic ask migrating towards being
an organic bid (LT-5). This is a bullish outlook – with a small caveat that if those floors give out,
the resulting liquidity-vacuum would likely take spot to LT-7.
The 144-minute is the same as the 90-minute from a few weeks prior, just lagged a bit; their
similarities include the return to bullish liquidity.
Higher up, however, on the 987-minute, we find a persistent bulltrap – zooming in slightly it
appears we can see the bid ramping up (note the “mini” aggressive bid cascade) while testing LT-
7. So far, spot has punctured ever so slightly therethrough ($7,195.50 vs $7,184.92) and there
does not appear to be too much resistance to continued bullish activity.
The 1-week also sees the return of bullish liquidity after a bear-trap recovery – as opposed to the
987-minute, the 1-week’s LTs are all ever-so-slightly pointed upwards, suggesting the ask is
ramping up (I would imagine this is likely LT-7 on the 987-minute being detected), nothing
spectacular yet but worth keeping an eye on in the weeks ahead.
So, overall, things look quite bullish all around! There are still some data looking a little spicey but
no complete recipe is found when the data are taken in as a whole.
Should $QQQ’s VoEx return to the Propagation Zone, pGC leap up and an Aggressive Ask appears
on the weekly, then I think its time to consider alternative to a bullish outlook – but then is not
now and so bullish outlooks persist.
Happy trading!
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2026-05-04 to 2026-05-09
