                                  Weekly Chat 2026-02-09


                                        Main Points


       -   VoEx & VoEx-daily for $SPY and $QQQ exist within the Propagation Zone.
       -   Gamma-hedging environments demonstrate local purchasing support, with $QQQ’s
           environment demonstrating IV-dependent hedging practices.
       -   The predictive Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data suggest more growth in the
           future than is current present.
       -   LS&T analysis demonstrates a contentious environment with bull-traps on the near-
           term and bearish liquidity + weakness on the longer-term.

                                        SUMMARY



           Last week, visions of downside reigned supreme and this week the
           visions are present but a tad more fuzzy.

           VoEx resides in the Propagation Zone with its cousin VoEx-daily -
           both of which foretell of downside in the near and further-out
           futures.

           VoEx’s outlook is counter-balanced by a hedging environment that
           is poised to provide purchasing support both in the immediate term
           and should the market dip. $QQQ presents in a slightly awkward
           spot wherein it must experience significantly more $+ as compared
           to 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − given its IV-dependent hedging orientation.

           The predictive MWGS showcases a positive expectation for the
           future – small in stature but positive nonetheless. This foretells of
           a future with more gamma squeezes than currently present, and
           thus, more instability and downside.

           LS&T analysis demonstrates near-term bulltraps with significant LT
           resistances overhead on all intervals except the 987-minute & the
           weekly. These view would suggest that the only real supportive
           actors in the market are the eager bids – which can be notoriously
           fickle.

           Overall, turbulence and continued downside resolutions expected.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat        for the week of              2026-02-09 to 2026-02-13
                                              DETAILS




Hello everyone
Last week, we had visions of downside, and the market seems to have manifested as such with
$SPY moving 2.07% to the downside before recovering on Friday for a net weekly move of -0.19%,
while $QQQ fared slightly worse with maximal downside measured at 3.99% with Friday’s
recovery landing the index at -1.97%. These moves and the subsequent recoveries can be noted
in the heatmaps below:




We almost fell off the map!
This week, we should look at the data and determine if Friday’s bounce will be prolonged or if it is
just another blip of activity in an otherwise sea of bearish anticipations.

Let’s get started!
Getting Started
As usual with VoEx, we see:




Quite bearish prints!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2026-02-09 to 2026-02-13
VoEx for both $SPY and $QQQ reside within the Propagation Zone, as does VoEx-daily. There’s
some worth in mentioning VoEx-daily for $SPY which has found itself attempting to exit the
Propagation Zone but stalling at the border.
The take-away message here is: things are bearish! On both the near-term and the far-term. The
most bullish interpretation of the data is “there is very slight evidence of a forming bulltrap”, but,
as we have just read, this would be but a trap.

Thus, instability is as instability does but the resolution still looks towards the downside.
Moving onwards, let’s check out the hedging heatmaps to see if they shall augment or diminutize
the week ahead:




A similar set-up as last week! Not much to write home about – both indexes have purchasing
support in the local and immediate vicinity with $SPY’s being particularly robust. $QQQ presents
with its continued split, as dictated by IV: should IV decrease, selling pressure will enter whereas
if IV increases, purchasing support; both are set to minimize in their magnitude as IV increases in
its respective magnitude of movement.
Thus, hedging is set to be supportive – but as we’ve seen, there is risk that is contingent on
volume!

Moving onwards, let’s take a peek at the gamma squeeze environment. The market saw a general
increase   in    gamma
squeeze counts, reaching
a peak of 1,073 on
Thursday    past     (not
shown).
The predictive models
(right) show a just-
positive expectation for
the future-ahead with
regards    to    gamma
squeeze    growth and
counts.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2026-02-09 to 2026-02-13
The take-away is that the growth rates currently being seen are expected to increase in the future
– and thus – the future is set to be both besieged and beset by bountiful bad gamma1. This is a
pretty bearish print but not in the immediate term, admittedly.
Thus, so far, we’ve the data are pointing towards downside evermore on the longer-term but there
is some pause still in the near-term given the hedging heatmaps. So let’s take a peek at liquidity
for ES and see if we can divine anything useful:




On the 90-minute we have a bull-trap that seems spurred by a recent, minor-to-moderate
Aggressive Bid. So far it has only managed to overtake LT5 while getting stuck on LT6. During
this stall, we can see LT1 & LT2 moving up towards being above spot (the classic “wave” after an
Aggressive Bid) which represents profit-takers moving up to, well, take profits. In combination
with LT6 resistance, this will provide additional headwinds towards overtaking LT6 & 7.
On the 144-minute we find a similar story albeit a less organized Aggressive Bid, which helped
bring spot up to LT5 during a bull-trap, in which we currently find present conditions.
The 987-minute is less optimistic, with bearish liquidity failing to over-take LT7 with the help of
some eager bid (LT1 & LT 2).


1
    Gamma is neither good nor bad but one mustn’t interrupt a good alliteration with the truth.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                    for the week of                    2026-02-09 to 2026-02-13
The weekly viewing shows futures having tested LT4 for support, which produced a week whereby
the candle was nestled nicely betwixt LT5 & LT4. It’s worth noting that LT4 is currently the only
observable eager bid present, with LT1, 2 & 3 being above spot (and thus, represent eager asks).
Overall, these appear to be quite bearish prints with some evidence of a bounce attempting to
bounce but with persistent overhead noted on the 90-, 144-, and 987-minute intervals and minimal
support on the weekly. Yet, currently, as it stands, the 987-minute is the only bearish LS print; and
thus, one must still be awkwardly poised for the week ahead to manage both a bulltrap potential
as well as another test of LT4 on the weekly.
Overall, the data are still pointing towards the downside, but should the hedging environment and
the eager bids join forces, it is not unreasonable to expect a turbulent bull-trap week ahead.
Happy Trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2026-02-09 to 2026-02-13
