                                    Weekly Chat 10/21/2024


                                          Main Points



    -   VoEx is within Stability while VoEx-daily has fallen out thereof once more. Reminiscence
        to 2024-07 continue.
    -   Hedging environments are “light” – $QQQ exists with local and immediate selling
        pressure.
    -   DLP activity has dropped down to near-zero once more.
    -   LDPM/S show some eager ask but overall bullish skies.

                                           SUMMARY



           The bullish outlook for the past week was mainly fulfilled and the outlook
           this week is for similar action.

           Some concern regarding VoEx-daily’s presentation on $SPY and $QQQ –
           in that it is reminiscent of both VoEx-divergence and 2024-07, which was,
           also, reminiscent of VoEx-divergence. A close eye will be kept on VoEx for
           any sudden moves into or towards the P.Z.

           Put-selling is moot still – we miss our friends.

           LDPM/S show good bullish conditions with LDPM below price – despite a
           full conversion of the inverted LDPMs.

           Overall, continued bullish outlooks with hopes that VoEx moves northward
           for the winter.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      10/14/2024
                                                    DETAILS




Hello one-and-all1!

Last week, we left off with continued bullish ideations, which, in comparison to our normal, more
paranoid ones, are quite a reprieve.
To benefit our sanities, the market moved 0.86% ($SPY), while $QQQ moved a casual 0.22%.

Not too shabby if you were lookin’ forward to nothing happening!
We can see the dazzling moves in the heatmap below:




A curious reminiscence from last week wherein $QQQ’s moved ever-so-close to selling pressure
– this week, it would seem, this casual flirting has turned into something more serious.
So, let’s see if we can’t find out if $QQQ is about to marry some selling pressure, of if they are just
dating.

Oh – and then let’s talk about LDPM/S and co.!




1
    Except for those who know who I’m talking to.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            10/14/2024
marketR: the dating app for markets
Starting as usual with VoEx we see:




Oo ! Things are still looking reminiscent to 2024-07! VoEx-daily has a VoEx-divergence look about
it, and it hasn’t resumed its presence back in stability quite as robustly as before – this is true for
both $SPY and $QQQ.
The interpretation of this is: tentatively bullish but we might be “in the middle” of something.
Should that be the case, that something would be VoEx moving rapidly into the P.Z. and thus,
indicating downside!
But – before we jump earnestly on that eventuality: let’s remember that data are as data are, not
how we want them to be2!
So, let’s check out the hedging environments with this in mind:




Ok! So that’s not quite as bullish as hoped but we do see that with $QQQ, at least, an increase in
IV will lead to purchasing pressure, so there’s that. However, and obviously, $QQQ is going to have
to combat some local and immediate selling pressure first in order to get to the purchasing
support.




2
    NOT the same for my children though.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                            10/14/2024
Influence distributions are leaning green but perhaps its not remiss to say $QQQ is leaning a tad
more the other way.
Our put-selling friends seem to have similar concerns with the market’s conditions. You’ll see
below that they are continuing to not-sell puts (much to our chagrin).




So, it seems our put-selling friends do not have any desire to capitalize on $+ or IV- in the future
(I suspect after such a long dormant period from our friends, that IV has been persistently too low
to really push for DLPs, but we’ll see).
So, overall, bullish outlooks but a close eye on VoEx (the same interpretation exists for traditional
VoEx, should it fall into P.Z., which it should if it agrees with this version of VoEx).

Gamma-data is relatively moot for now as well – no real changes, so we’ll save some digital paper
on it.
And last up, since we’ve been starting to make a habit out of it, we see LDPM/S for ES on the daily:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          10/14/2024
Oh – and the new liquidity scanner! But more on that later.
For now we see some eager ask floating above spot but conditions are Bullish overall. Some
indications that liquidity is decreasing at the organic ask (probably due to the eager asks present).
Nonetheless, we see LDPM-89, -144, -233 are suggesting an eager bid is also working its way in.
Overall: bullish!


So – a quick chat for the week as why look a gift horse in the mouth? VoEx is bullish (but we will
be keeping an eye out on its movement with regards to the Propagation Zone), and LDPM/S are
in agreement. For those who wish to temper such bullish feelings amongst us, there is always the
chance that $QQQ’s surrounding selling pressure might introduce some early-week volatility that
might present some opportunities.
Happy Trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          10/14/2024
Changes!
Lots of changes to go over.
Let’s group them into: Systemic and Local.


Systemic Changes:
Lately a lot of effort, time and energy (although not necessarily all-at-once) has been aimed at
setting up the backend for increased processing efficiency and eventual migration to a new
dashboard.
The progress of this has actually been pretty good! But – some things have shifted. So, here’s
how the future looks:
    -    Dashboard:

         I think we will be migrating back the old domain `data.deep….` but it will be the same
         dashboard. This should occur within the month and should only entail you having to switch
         which url you go to.
         Once transferred, I will work to implement the new backend processing such that we can
         get the data quicker (it should get the data online so we can update the dashboard at
         7pm!).

         From there, the initial plan was to continue the sprint into more dashboard developments,
         but:
Local Changes
         The recent advancements and theory-crafting about LDPM/S has made me consider that
         we might be better if I spent more time on ensuring:
            o The educational material is up-to-date on LDPM/S, it is woefully out of date (as are
                the other educational materials)
            o More videos and explanations to go along side it,
            o More active interactions with you guys throughout the day (via spaces or
                streaming, etc.)

         as well as implementing these changes into LTA!
Thus, the priorities are:
    -    New dashboard domain looks like a necessity so that’ll be done,
    -    LTA updates
    -    Backend processing updates
    -    Casual progress on Dashboard
If you would like to see DDS go in a different direction, please let me know!
Justin


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       10/14/2024
