                                    Weekly Chat 2025-04-25


                                          Main Points



    -   VoEx-daily is adhered to the Stability Line, which impossiates declaring the current bull-
        trap officially over. VoEx resides still deep in the Propagation Zone, bringing with it
        bearish ideations on the longer-term.
    -   Gamma-hedging environments are supportive for a market in all directions; baring
        excessive movements $SPY, and $QQQ are poised to received purchasing.
    -   Dealer-Long Put activity has ceased and is near-zero.
    -   MWGS data show an easing of conditions but the outlook is still predominantly bearish.
    -   LDPM/S investigations showcase a mix-field that is leaning bearish for ES futures.
    -   Overall, prudency suggests a watchful eye for the agonal respirations of a bulltrap as
        they are likely going to be followed by agon.

                                           SUMMARY



           The data show a bull-trap that is in the process of terminating: VoEx-daily
           is no longer within Stability after recent spike-behavior, LDPM/S on VIX
           and ES are mixed with overall bearish leanings, and dealer long put activity
           has remained near-zero.

           Nonetheless, evidence to support a dying breath of positive movement is
           found within VoEx-daily’s unwillingness to extricate itself fully from
           Stability, the gamma-hedging heatmaps which are (within reason)
           omnisupportive for $SPY and $QQQ, as well as an easement of gamma-
           squeeze influence in the market.

           However, the larger picture remains largely undisturbed as VoEx resides
           within the Propagation Zone, and the higher-order timeframes show
           bearish liquidity without evidence of a supportive eager bid nearby.

           Thus, perhaps a rocky start but downside resumption appears the prudent
           outlook.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-04-21 to 2025-04-25
                                              DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, the idea was the market would proceed with its bull-trap and then relinquish its gains.
The week progressed as such with $SPY moving -1.41% and $QQQ moving -2.26% for the short-
week. These numbers are well in-line with the EPR for the week, with the T+4 EPR for $SPY being
± 3.26% and for $QQQ, the T+4 EPR was ± 3.71%. As such, I think for the first time in awhile, the
spectre of mean reversion gets to remain undisturbed for our analysis ahead.
Thus, we can skip right to looking at the Gamma Hedging Heatmaps from last week!




A really cool finding is that the market will seemingly always1 go the path that I haven’t explicitly
drawn. Something to maybe keep in mind as we move forward.
Nonetheless, it is very cool to see how specific our analysis was with regards to the movement
of the market in pursuit of 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −. Last week we did some napkin-math to convert the LDPM/S $VX
analysis to IV movement for $SPY and $QQQ (represented by the dashed vertical line), and what
luck! The market seems to have moved just so.

Despite spot not having reached as high of heights as anticipated, we can see that almost exactly
upon reaching our off-the-cuff calculation of IV expectation (as calculated from $VX) the spot-up
engine was deactivated, resulting in a steady slide down (while maintaining IV!) into gamma
neutrality.


1
    See Weekly Chat 2025-04-14.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-04-21 to 2025-04-25
The option dealers of late are showing off methinks and I am a huge fan!

So, before we become fanbois for the optionbois, let’s take a look to see if we are out of the
dangerbois2 just yet.

Est-ce qu’on sortis du bois?
Starting as usual with VoEx:




We see an admittedly not-that-bearish of a sight – well – that is if you only look at VoEx-daily. In
doing so, we see that it’s certainly not in the Propagation Zone, as it seems to be completing yet
another spike, provoked by something earlier in the week.
This gives admittedly an increased chance of continued bullish performance, as it would be more
preferred should VoEx-daily find itself back into the P.Z. for us so that we could reconcile
expectations between VoEx and VoEx-daily (namely that they would both agree that downside is
here) but that’s just not what we have, and so, the consequence is VoEx-daily awkwardly
meandering back down to join VoEx while we just sit and wait (hopefully).
Despite this, the outlook is still bearish; with VoEx being within the Propagation Zone and with
VoEx-daily’s `spike-like` behavior being rather moot, continued bullish action from this view
seems minimally likely.

Is this resonated within the gamma-hedging heatmaps in any way? Let’s check them out:




2
    Defined by having a lot of wood.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2025-04-21 to 2025-04-25
Heatmaps that are largely the same! Both $SPY and $QQQ showcase a surprisingly, robustly
supportive hedging environment with purchasing support positioned to engage the market in both
[$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] and [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +]! A rare treat and likely testament to the efforts put forth by the options
dealers these past few weeks. Thus, the heatmaps look rather unsupportive for any bearish
activity while in pursuit of gamma neutrality.
Like last week, let’s check on $VX to see if we can anticipate some IV movements, do some napkin
math, and then map the results onto our heatmaps.




From this view we see an incoming bullish test of $29 forming in the top-left corner as LDPM-
L5(144) and LDPM-L7(610) are poised to act as an organic bid should $VX test it at about $25.75.
Zooming out, we see a bear-trap on the 144-minute with spot looking to test LDPM-L6(377) at
$25.50ish. Taken together, this paints a near-term expectation of testing $25ish which is poised
to receive an organic bid `bump` from LDPM-L5 and LDPM-L7 on the 90-minute and LDPM-L6 and
the 144-minute! That’s quite the bump lining up.
Zooming out even more, we arrive on the 987-minute (bottom left) which shows bullish liquidity
with some profit-taking going on. We can note the profit-taking via the lower-order LDPMs that
are above price (lower order LDPMs [below 144] are `eager`) which is currently LDPM-L1(5),
LDPM-2(13) and LDPM-L3(34). This profit taking is also noted within LDPS, as liquidity conditions
are said to be predominately `Eager Asks` that is flowing to the bid to transact (i.e.: profit-taking
/ exiting). There’s an eager bid on this view at $24.70 (LDPM-L4(55)) that might be worth watching
as a bridge between the lower-timeframe organic agents and the higher-timeframes.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat               for the week of                2025-04-21 to 2025-04-25
To this end, we zoom out even more to the 1-Week view where we see quite the impressive
Aggressive Bid Cascade underway! You’ll remember from Weekly Chat 2025-04-14 that the ABC
noted on the 1-W was still “… in its infancy” and we can see that maturation has definitely come!
Still, however, we don’t see any eager-parties or profit-taking, and so the expectation is continued
bullish action as the ABC develops!
In general, the various decreases to the next organic floor are about 4% down, so let’s round it to
5% and see where that lines up with the $SPY and $QQQ heatmaps (I even did some hand-wavy
linedrawing):




Mapping the equivalent percent-change from $VX-spot to $SPY-IV and $QQQ-IV, we get a picture
of slight movement up and to the left a little bit, followed by the introduction of selling-pressure
and movement to gamma neutrality located [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 +] direction. In this view, the bull-trap is still
present (if but slightly) and is found exclusively within the remaining space provided by VX and
the organic bids.
So, thus far, we have evidence per VoEx-daily that there is still slight breath left in the bull-trap
before returning to bearish performance, and this is echoed in the LDPM-VX/Heatmap data by
way of LDPM/S for $VX on the lower-timeframes showcasing space left before a full test of the
near-by organic bids occurs.
Thus, armed with such opinions, do we find that there is any expectation in profitability in the
[$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] direction as measured via the Dealer-Long Put activity?




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2025-04-21 to 2025-04-25
Nope! Not even a hint of it! It would seem DLP activity has finally reached zero-state on both
$SPY and $QQQ, and since then, has maintained it! This offers little-to-no hopes that our financial
overlords are expecting profitability in the bullish direction.
Moving along, let’s check on how the more core aspects of the market are doing vis-à-vis the
Market Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data.


                                                                     Up top, we see the growth-
                                                                     data (blue line) is still
                                                                     positive but decreasing still
                                                                     from last week. This is
                                                                     unsurprising if we peek at
                                                                     the nominal counts, which
                                                                     show a 3.5% decrease
                                                                     month-over-month, a 20%
                                                                     decrease over the past 2-
                                                                     weeks, and a 14% decrease
                                                                     over the past week!

                                                                     It would seem GTM’s
                                                                     anticipations have been
                                                                     have be pretty spot-on with
                                                                     its anticipating long-gamma
                                                                     flowing into the market.

                                                                     Taken together, these pain a
                                                                     stabilizing picture, should
                                                                     growth continue to decrease
                                                                     and GTM print positive
                                                                     values.

                                                                     To help verify or refute this,
                                                                     let’s check on the up-and-
                                                                     coming new-kid on the
                                                                     block,     the       𝑝𝑝MWGS
                                                                     (predictive Market Wide
                                                                     Gamma Squeeze) data:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-04-21 to 2025-04-25
In this view, we see the PCC (Predictive Count Curve; brown line) still anticipates growth (as it
points northward) and the Predictive Growth Curve (PGC; purple line) is showing a reduction in
growth’s acceleration to about zero with continued ideations of decrementation.
Taken together this paints a picture of continued growth but at a less-remarkable speed than was
previously noted and should PGC become negative, we can start to expect a reduction in the
growth-curve’s performance, and afterwards, stability starts to return to the market.
Thus, both paint a picture of a market attempting to “cool off” some, but one that is still quite hot
(and the 𝑝𝑝MWGS data suggests the `cooling off` attempts do not amount to much other than to
slow the rate of heating up, rather than to actually cool it down).

So, small chance for an IV-driven lethargic and stagnate start to the week that looks poised (and
expected [via DLP]) to return to downside.
Our last stop for the week is with LDPM/S for ES, let’s take a look:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-04-21 to 2025-04-25
With these data, we see a predominately bearish field with the near-term data (top panels; 90-
minute on the left and 144-minute on the right) showing bearish findings (admittedly the 90-
minute panel looks like a strange bear-trap hybrid) and the higher-order timeframes (bottom
panels; left is 987-minute and the right is the 1-Week) also showing bearish prints.
And so, taken together, it seems the data are reminiscent of the final stages of a bull-trap and so
the expectation is “itty-bitty bump then dump”.
Perhaps next week, if the market has calmed down some, I can put together an update on the
progress towards updates!

Til then, happy trading!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-04-21 to 2025-04-25
