                                    Weekly Chat 08/07/2023


                                           Main Points


       -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ are starting the week within the Propagation Zone.
       -   Hedging environments provide purchasing support in the event of a $-/IV+ week.
       -   DLP growth is minimal-to-negative.
       -   MWGS-growth is positive and GS-counts exceed the 5,- and 10-day averages.
       -   VoEx Variance is indicating persistent over-heating but still no data appearing in
           the Propagation Zone, suggesting the threat of an imminent large-scale reversion
           is reduced.

                                            SUMMARY



           VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ both spiked from the I.Z. into the P.Z. in a
           stronger-than-henceforth-seen move, representing the bold claim that
           BUPO is over. Subsequently, VoEx has been eerily hovering just at the
           Propagation Zone entrance.

           Heatmaps have changed from their typical and now demonstrate
           purchasing support in the event of a $-/IV+ week. Both indices have local
           purchasing support, positive Influence Distributions, and left-tail risks.

           DLP behavior is predominantly dead: no one is selling puts for the week
           ahead.

           MWGS-data demonstrate continued growth and persistence in gamma
           squeezes. GTM is officially printing an undefined behavior print.

           VoEx Variance continues to demonstrate just how overheating the over-
           heating market is. However, there is no evidence from this view that a
           market correction is brewing as 𝑉𝑉 2 and 𝑉𝑉 2-velocity are both still positive.

           Overall, these data suggest a high-risk for short-, and medium-term
           bearish performance in the market. In the event this occurs, an eye will be
           kept on 𝑉𝑉 2 to monitor if the downside starts shifting towards larger and
           more sustained downside.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           08/07/2023
                                                     DETAILS




Hello everyone!
There is quite a bit to do, so let’s get started!
This Weekly Chat is going to be a bit thicc -er than normal as DDS is welcoming quite a large
group new Premium Members! With that, I felt this would be a good time to get everyone “caught-
up-to-speed” in a sense, so I will be doing the normal data analysis but also I will try to highlight
some of the core concepts typically encountered in the Weekly Chats to go along with the data
analysis, as well as some recent context, to help frame the significance of the recent data prints.
I will also try to structure this Weekly Chat in a more formal manner, so that the division of
thoughts and ideas are clearly demarcated.
Please note – there is going to be a lot in this Weekly Chat – please don’t feel the need to digest
it all at once. A nibble here, a nibble there, and eventually you will find you’ve tasted the whole
assortment and found the data that resonate the most with you and your trading style – and that’s
the goal.
So – let’s jump in!
                                         Quick Review of Last Week
The main outlook for last week was bullish-until-proven-otherwise (BUPO1) as VoEx for $SPY and
$QQQ had rebounded back into the Inhibition Zone. However, there has been a continued theme
these past few months, as BUPO has reigned supreme, that this bullish performance should
eventually give back some of its gains, a thought that was re-affirmed from the vantage point of
VoEx Variance (discussed below):
                                                         “
                             … is there any reason to have a bearish outlook?
         Naturally the answer is yes: duh. An overheating market is an unstable market; …
                                                         “




1
  BUPO is a market-state in which VoEx is persistently in the Inhibition Zone. Another term for BUPO might be
“overheating”. That is to say, VoEx entering and persisting in the Inhibition Zone is a bullish outlook but a bullish
outlook that is predicated on instability. The consequence of BUPO is the idea that the resulting bullish performance
can be expected to give back some of its gains as the market leaves its over-heated state. The approach of the
cooling-off period is typically marked by VoEx Spikes [Tier II Primer, pg. 21 & Report Component Cheat Sheets] as
well as VoEx Divergence [Tier II Primer, pg. 22 & Report Component Cheat Sheets].

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                        08/07/2023
      Along with those brief concerns, it was also noted that the hedging environment would provide
      no purchasing support in the event of a $-/IV+ move2.With that in mind, let’s look at the movement
      of $QQQ and $SPY throughout their hedging environments for the week (below).
      The first thing that is obvious is wowza.
      Movements this significant aren’t typically
      seen so much.
      Let’s take a moment to look at some key
      observations:

          1) These heatmaps are from 2023-07-
             28, last Friday.
          2) We see that there was little-to-no
             purchasing support to the bottom
             and right ($-/IV+) of the crosshairs.
          3) We see gamma neutrality extended
             $+/IV-.
          4) As the week started, $SPY and $QQQ
             started moving in a $-/IV+ fashion,
             moving it further into selling pressure
             and further way from gamma
             neutrality / purchasing support.
          5) It seems there was a quick graph at
             gamma neutrality by $SPY on
             Thursday, this failed, and IV moved
             back.
      With $SPY moving -2.21% and $QQQ moving
      -2.98% throughout the week, we can see that
      the hedging environment provided little-to-no
      support – even when the market attempted to re-adjust towards gamma neutrality in spectacular
      fashion on 08/03.

Here we see the effects of having no purchasing support located $-/IV+ quadrant (down and to the right
from the crosshairs). Although the hedging environments themselves aren’t price-predictive (well – that’s
not completely true as the Influence Distributions are), we see that it does a fine job of showing us what
forces will be introduced to the market under the four possible outcomes of price-movement and IV-
movement.
For instance, difference in the hedging environments have often led to differences in price movement from
$SPY and $QQQ [Weekly Chats: 2023-07-03; 2023-07-10; 2023-07-17 as recent examples].


      2
       The Hedging Heatmaps show the hedging environments throughout an equity’s landscape. The crosshairs tell us
      the current price and IV. The difference colors tell us how the options dealers will have to hedge their positions as
      the price moves (red: sell, blue: purchasing, white: nothing). If the price moves up ($+, crosshairs move up), down
      ($-, crosshairs move down), or if IV increases (IV+; crosshairs move right) or decreases (IV-; crosshairs move left).

      Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                         08/07/2023
In spite of the Hedging Heatmap’s attempts at capturing our attentions for the week (as valiant
as those attempts were), one would be remiss if their attention wasn’t focused on VoEx.
So, with that in mind, let’s take a peek at VoEx and the data going forward.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     08/07/2023
                          Quick Recap of Significant VoEx Observations and Trends

Data analysis in the market is contextual – even if you have objective data it is important to appreciate in
which environments you find the data. So, let’s quickly re-wind the clocks and look at of the more stand-out
behaviors from VoEx for $SPY recently, with emphasis on how those behaviors have shaped our views today.

First, we have to note that from ~11/2022 until ~05/2022, VoEx had established residence inside of stability,
with an oscillating pattern therein. This was considered to be a nice, organic and bullish state for the market
to be in.

Weekly Chat 2023-05-01: Prior to this Weekly Chat, VoExes cycle had broken, and there was a moment where
VoEx looked to be rapidly falling into the P.Z. However, VoEx had “juked us out” after falling into the P.Z. only
to quickly rebound back into the I.Z. It was noted that “… these data are typically associated with near-term
bullish performance … [and] large downside in the longer-term future”.

Weekly Chat 2023-05-08: Discussions on VoEx’s recent behavioral continue as VoEx begins printing definitive
signs of altering its previously established behavior. This, at the time, simply instilled a BUPO outlook but was
recognized as “something”.

Weekly Chat 2023-05-15: With continued evidence of the behavior breaking, outlooks began to change: “Does
this suggest that the normal “cycle” of the market is still in effect? That is, should we expect some near-term
downside while the overall long-term movement of the market is upwards? $QQQ’s VoEx suggests that this
may not be the case. With VoEx rising ever higher into the Inhibition Zone, without a definitive move
downwards (such as a spike) or a migration lower (such as VoEx divergence), $QQQ’s view offers us a bullish
outlook.”
Weekly Chat 2023-05-22: From there, conversations began about what constitutes the end of BUPO, to which
it was typically suggested “VoEx Spikes and VoEx Divergences”. This weekly chat gave several examples of
VoEx Divergence, and why it was important to keep an eye out.

Despite having access to definitive data prints that would give signal to the end of BUPO, the market wasn’t
eager to let us off the hook so easily as it provided at least 1 “fake-out” of VoEx Divergence.

Weekly Chat 2023-06-05: VoEx Divergence is noted on $SPY and $QQQ, indicating a nearing end to BUPO.

Weekly Chat 2023-06-19: VoEx Divergence degrades on $SPY and $QQQ as VoEx turns its migration back
northward, removing the anticipation for of BUPO ending.

This wouldn’t be the last time VoEx Divergence would form, and wither away. However, the subsequent time,
the interruption of VoEx Divergence wasn’t that VoEx started floating back up (like in 2023-06-19) but rather
had spiked down significantly, only to rapidly recover:

Weekly Chat 2023-07-03: VoEx Divergence once again forms, and recedes – this time, however, with an
accompanying VoEx Spike to the P.Z. on $SPY and $QQQ. Signs that the mounting instability was becoming
severe. This severity prompted direct comparisons with 2020: “… This behavior has become a main-stay
around    highly   unstable    markets…     [infographic    of   2020    and    2021    VoExes     on    $SPY]“.


Onwards the idea was simple: avoid rogue waves of the incoming “storm” that was brewing while maintaining
a near-term BPO outlook.




 Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                   08/07/2023
                                                    The data

Starting as usual, let’s take a moment to appreciate VoEx [be sure to read the quick synopsis on
the previous page!]. [Note: Typically, unless stated otherwise, when I refer to VoEx, I’m referring
to VoEx-daily].




We see the processes that were described above. Post 2022-10, VoEx moved and stayed within
stability, performing its standard oscillations of a maturing market3. We can see this cycle and its
disruption better here:




3
 Check out most VoExes from 2020-03 until ~2022. You’ll find the oscillating VoEx pattern quite often with rapidly
appreciating equities!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                      08/07/2023
Notice that at the start of Period 5 (P5), VoEx’s behavior changes, ultimately leading to rejection
of the “cycle”4. (Its also worth noting that aside form
P1’s arrows, all of the subsequent arrows are just
copies of each other! A relative condition I have for
considering something a cycle is equidistance
periods – to provide at least some objectivity to the
handwaving.)
The idea here is that:

    1) In 2022-10 a change in VoEx behavior lead to
       a stabilizing market which is characterized by
       an oscillating VoEx.
    2) This stability broke throughout in 05/2023
    3) The stability broke due to over-heating within
       the market, sending VoEx higher into the
       Inhibition Zone.
    4) Each showing of the instability “collapse”
       since then has been more severe.
And its (4) that I want to spend most of our time on –
now that we have contextualized where we find our
current instability.




4
  Some things need to be said here. In general, I consider historic data good reference points, but always emphasis
that past performance doesn’t predict future performance.
But – past behavior does predict future behavior - especially when behavior changes. This means, its not the cycle
itself that is worthy of note but the change in the cycle that is worth of note in as much as it represents a change in
behavior, especially when combined with other objective changes (such as variance).

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                          08/07/2023
As suggested on the previous page, each instance of the instability “giving way” (that have all
been rejected so far) left increased variance on VoEx – suggestive of increasing instability with
each failed BUPO resolution.

                                                   To the left we see just what we just hypothesized:
                                                   around 05/2023, when VoEx’s “cycle” stopped, VoEx
                                                   started becoming progressively more erratic in its
                                                   movements (its variance increased!).
                                                   An erratic VoEx is an unstable VoEx! An unstable VoEx
                                                   is an unstable stock!
                                                   All of this to say: things are getting progressively more
                                                   unstable5.
                                                   The take-home point: VoEx Divergence on $SPY put
                                                   VoEx directly into the Propagation Zone and so far,
                                                   unlike its prior contemporaries, it has stayed there.
Things are evolving – albeit a tad slower than perhaps originally envisioned, but nonetheless, the
data seem clear from VoEx alone: VoEx is becoming increasing erratic as it exhibits the market’s
continued overheating. This erratic behavior comes on the tails of an interrupted “organic” market
recovery from 10/2022 until 05/2023 – after which the market has been climbing very
aggressively.
This aggressive over-heating has induced several sparks that were of-kind but not of-magnitude
to illicit the final result of BUPO – but this distinction seems to be diminishing.

The end-result?
BUPO is officially dead and VoEx is starting the week inside of the Propagation Zone.
Per VoEx: imminent downside is expected.




 Quick food for thought: notice that mid-06/2023 had an appreciating VoEx leading to the
 VoEx spike while our current VoEx Spike occurred with a depreciating VoEx. I’ll leave the
 exercise to the reader to determine the significance, if any, of that observation.




In particular, it is a common finding market-wide that a stock in recovery should exhibit the behavior noted during
the “VoEx Cycle” (please verify this with some VoEx searches! No - this isn’t a note I forgot to erase, I’m talking to
you – it will be an important VoEx behavior to identify).
Curiously this also reminds me of a Fire Department expression: “Its not a problem until it’s a problem”; a change
in VoEx behavior represents the emergence of a problem.
5
  I used $SPY here as a reference but I would recommend checking out these same dates for $QQQ!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                          08/07/2023
With that in mind, let’s move over to the Hedging Heatmaps to see what they offer the market in
the event of a $-/IV+ week.




                                                                          Ohh! Stability! And a lot of it! This is
                                                                          something that has been relatively
                                                                          absent from the market lately6.
                                                                          This purchasing support seems
                                                                          rather fortuitous – especially with
                                                                          the outlook gained from VoEx above:
                                                                          should the market start to drop; we
                                                                          see that both $SPY and $QQQ will
                                                                          start introducing purchasing support
                                                                          into the market.
                                                                          Notice the blue boxes with numbers.
                                                                          Those indicate the purchasing
                                                                          support that is “significant”. Its worth
                                                                          keeping in mind that on $SPY this is
                                                                          below the daily LDPM-55, and on
                                                                          $QQQ it seems to be just-at it (more
                                                                          on what “significant” might mean
                                                                          later).
                                                            The        Heatmaps          Influence
                                                            Distributions are slightly unique in
                                                            that they both offer bullish outlooks
for the week ahead but notice that there’s no right-tail risk (the line goes flat to the right) but
                        7

there is a left-tail risk.
Curious!


6
 The last time $SPY had any purchasing support was during the 06/20’s/2023! Even then it was pretty minor.
7
 This is slightly embarrassing but I can’t find the source for this in my files, but I do know that the influence
distribution has statistical relevancy (p<0.05) for 5 days out. The peak of the curve tells us what that outlook is:
bullish (if in blue), bearish (if in red), or flat (if in white).

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                           08/07/2023
Tail Risk is a term used to describe an event that has a low probability but high-impact.
One of the influence distribution’s benefits is they show us tail risk! And here we see tail-risk is pointing at a very
red week.

      From the Hedging Heatmaps, we can see that the hedging environments for $SPY and $QQQ are
      quite robust.
      Does this mean the market won’t go down?
      Not – not necessarily. The data here are simply showing us that if something is going to push the
      market down, it is going to have to do it through a hefty amount of selling pressure.
      For completeness sake (since we are being comprehensive with this Weekly Chat), however, we
      can’t bypass the one of the more curious paradoxes about hedging environments:
                    Whereas the presence of purchasing support infers robust support from bid,
                            Moving through purchasing support infers thin support from bid.
      By thin I mean relatively thin but objectively bad. That’s to say, suppose on Wednesday both
      $SPY and $QQQ are testing the 1-day LDPM values indicated above: this means that that $SPY
      and $QQQ have moved through some pretty intense purchasing support.
      Yet – in spite of this support the market fell. This implies some hefty selling!8


      8
        Ok, this concept is a tad difficult (no, I’m not being facetious; it’s a liquidity topic so its worth discussing!). One can consider that
      there are two main groups in the market: price sensitive and price insensitive. Price sensitive players want the market to move
      in their favor (the Ask wants the price to go up [to keep selling more for a higher price-point] and the bid wants the price to go
      down [to keep purchasing more at a lower price-point]), and price insensitive players simply want to transact.

      So, what does it mean if the market is chewing through purchasing support? Well – we know that the bid being introduced into
      the market is prince insensitive (since its being used for hedging purposes), and we know the price is dropping (which means the
      transaction is occurring at the price sensitive bid [organic]).

      Taken together: this is a precarious position! A price insensitive bid does not care about bidding into a declining price (or bidding
      into a rising price as well) – regardless of who or what is pushing the price down, while the price sensitive bid is all too happy to
      continue       purchasing       at    discount.    This     means      the    outcome      is    dependent        on      the    ask!

      The consequence being if there is significant, eager ask and sufficient organic bid, the purchasing support may be incapable of
      moving the price upwards. Instead, it does work to “absorb” the eager ask such that the supply of discount shares to the organic
      bid starts to dwindle – resulting in less downwards pressure, and resumption of ask/bid balance.

      Does this mean that the hedging heatmaps are useless? No, not at all – only that they only tell us one aspect of the equation.
      Whereas we can visualize the presence of bid or ask from the hedging environment, we can’t always visualize if that bid will be
      met        with        a        price       sensitive        ask       or         a        price        insensitive        ask.

      A price insensitive bid meeting a price sensitive ask will cause robust upwards movement but an eager ask meeting only a price
      sensitive bid whose liquidity is being augmented via the price-insensitive bid will cause almost always cause significant decline. A
      casual reminder that understanding hedging is to understand what that hedging is interacting with. How can we determine if the
      bid     or    ask     is   price     sensitive    or     insensitive?    LDPM       of    course!    More     on      that     later.

      In these events, do the heatmaps indicate where the purchasing support would become robust enough to starve off even a price
      insensitive ask? Kind of. Notice how the LDPM lines drawn on the map coincide nicely with the “significant” purchasing support!

      Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                                           08/07/2023
This may be one thing to keep an eye out for as the week progresses, if the market starts to fall
expediently into purchasing support.
So, overall, the Hedging Heatmaps tell us that there will be purchasing support introduced into
the market in the event of a $-/IV+ week, and the influence distributions suggest the most likely
move is indeed a green week!
I think that’s a clean strike into the “bullish” column, making our current tally 1 bearish (per VoEx)
and 1 bullish (per Heatmaps).
Let’s see how big we can make this tie.
One last piece of data to look at with regards to $SPY and $QQQ specifically, are the Dealer Long
Puts (DLPs).
Now, DLPs deserve their own write-up but their gist is pretty straightforward:

The purpose of selling puts is to profit off of either an increase in price or a decrease in I.V.
Through both of these mechanisms, the puts that were net-sold can be re-purchased for a lower
price, the difference which some associate with the mythical idea of a profit.
Unlike most data prints, DLPs are pretty unique due to how they can influence the market with
respect to their own genesis.

Dealer Long Puts are predominantly sold by institutional retail. That is to say: people with money.
In observing DLP behavior, it shouldn’t take long for you to start seeing particular patterns with
DLP behavior and future price action as our DLP friends tend to be quite well-timed.

That is to say: on a short timeframe, selling puts is en masse is usually a strong indication that
someone with money somewhere (or groups of someones with money somewhere) think that the
market is either going to experience a decrease in I.V. or an increase in price (or, ideally, both).
This conviction is strong enough to sell puts; a notoriously risky asset.
That means, large increases in DLP behavior in the short-term can be quite bullish and quite well-
timed.
But, DLPs aren’t without their downside. Their main issue (at least to the market) is how they
respond to $-/IV+ movements (namely: not well9). This is uh-oh-ness is compounded as the
number of standing DLPs increase!
So, if the market (or equity) experiences a sudden and short-lived growth of DLPs, this is a robust
bullish indication.




Although not official yet (I’m still cooking up data) but in a classical hand-wavy fashion, I’m going to suggest that the significant
bid (or significant ask) is where the bid (or ask) becomes eager. (More on what eager means later but the idea is the bid starts
pushing the price up, as opposed to the ask).
9
  DLP Primer goes over some of the details but in short: an OTM DLP that becomes ITM experiences a metamorphosis, in
particular with respect to IV, such that the new ITM DLP’s vanna [2nd order greek] will start to cause excessive selling as IV rises!
[This was opposite when it was OTM: it caused purchasing as IV rose]. This can be particularly bad if, say, IV rose while the put
become ITM!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                                      08/07/2023
However, if DLP behavior remains elevated for significant periods of time – this is a strongly
destabilizing sign10. For instance: guess which option was most involved in early 2020!
So, with that in mind, let’s take a peek at our DLP friends:




Here we see the week ended with continued near-zero put selling on $SPY and short put closures
on $QQQ.
Not the most bullish of signals!



     So far, we have talked about VoEx and the Hedging Environments for $SPY and $QQQ, as well
     as the DLP behavior.
     VoEx gives directional insights by way of understanding an equity’s stability.
     This directional insight was then applied to the hedging environments to better understand
     how conditions will change should VoEx’s idea of a good week transpire.
     And finally, we verify to see if this directional insight is consistent with our DLP-Friends who
     are known to be very aptly timed.
     Taken together, the first three main data prints typically discussed in the Weekly Chat allow
     for a pretty comprehensive view of the market for the week ahead.




10
  The why here is slightly different than just volatility per se. Large quantities of DLPs tend to cause significant
selling pressure as they decay (dealer short delta → decays → dealer must sell shares). In the event of large
amounts of expiring DLPs along with significant downside causes (1) large quantities of DLPs to be abruptly closed
(causes selling), and (2) OTM DLPs become ITM DLPs which start provoking more selling as IV rises! Indeed a
dangerous combo.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                        08/07/2023
We can tally this one in the “bearish” department, bringing our tally to: 2 bearish, 1 bullish. From
the DLPs, we move to the Market Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data as we expand our views
evermore.

There are three main data prints from the MWGS data:
   1) The MWGS-growth trend,
   2) the MWGS-count, and
   3) the Gamma Trending Metric (GTM).
Let’s look at each one.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         08/07/2023
On the preceding page we see the MWGS data page from the Macro Report.
The top graph is the MWGS-growth graph – it simply shows us the overall rate-of-change in the
number of gamma squeezes throughout the market with a 5-day rolling average (gold line), and a
calculated overall trend (black line).
When the growth-rate of gamma squeezes is positive (above the red line), it means that the
number of gamma squeezes throughout the market is increasing; this is a bearish finding as
having significant quantities gamma squeezes (or being in one, if you are an individual equity), is
associated with downturns; conversely, if growth is negative, it is a bullish finding.
We currently have a persistently positive growth rate, which is a bearish finding.
The middle graph is the current MWGS-counts showing us the number of gamma squeezes in the
market along with a 5-day rolling average. You may notice that it seems like the market’s
“minimum” is around 1,000 – this is recently true but historically not. Prior to 2020, the average
minimum number was closer to 500 (as was the average number overall!) but for the past three
years, this has changed in two ways.

The first is that the all-time-highs have persistently scored higher values since 2020, with over
3,000 gamma squeezes noted in 2022-09. The second is that the average “low” that the market
can achieve anymore is just about 1,000. Exactly where we are at.
With the counts, we can see that we are well above the average for the past 5 days (1,258 vs.
1,016) and even weller above the average for the past 10 days (1,258 vs. 977).
The bottom graph is Gamma Trending Metric (GTM). It’s designed to measure and predict future
changes in the growth of gamma squeezes by keeping track of stocks that are forming gamma-
squeeze environments, and those that aren’t. When GTM is positive (and especially GTM-ema),
this indicates an increase in gamma squeeze growth is expected; and conversely, when it is
negative, it means the gamma-squeeze-tap has been turned off.
Both the MWGS-counts and MWGS-growth data showing growth (and thus, printing some
substantially bearish prints), but what is up with GTM? Why is it printing tombstone-negative
prints?
Frankly – I’m not sure exactly11, but the data suggest there are times when the “incoming short
gamma” gets “flushed” out. This is evidenced by these data prints being associated with surges
in gamma squeezes (i.e.: the gamma squeezes that were “coming down the line” got “pushed out
of the line and into the market”).
Furthermore, the data suggest that this gamma-squeeze “push” typically has two different
outcomes, with most of its dependence on the current growth-value of gamma squeezes
throughout the market.


11
  The GTM Graphing algorithm takes the GTM values and if there are any greater than a certain threshold, it cuts it
off and places a max value. This is just for graphing purposes and under-the-hood, these values are incredibly
negative. However, the underlying math works like so: 𝑋𝑋𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖 − 𝑋𝑋𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 whereby if 𝑋𝑋𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖 → 0 because of a gamma “flush”,
then GTM simply becomes 0 − 𝑋𝑋𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 → some-large-negative-number.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                           08/07/2023
In other words: these strange GTM prints occurring during a positive MWGS-growth are typically
met with downside, with the opposite being true for when they occur during negative MWGS-
growth.

But until that data is finalized: let’s put GTM in “neutral” and vow to keep an eye on it in the
upcoming days.
This puts our tally at: 3 bearish, 1 bullish.

Alrighty! Almost done for now. The last metric I want to cover is VoEx Variance (𝑉𝑉 2). VoEx
Variance is an extension of when we looked at SPY’s VoEx Variance – except this for about 500
unique stocks, over 12 sectors for a total of 758 distinct combinations, resulting in about 17,000
observations. Not too shabby.

First, we should go over the thought process behind 𝑉𝑉 2 so we know what we are looking at, and
then we should be introduced to the original 𝑉𝑉 2 graph, and then finally pivot over to the recent
improvements that have been made.
                                               Thought Process

Just as we saw with $SPY, identifying when VoEx begins to behave erratically can be quite
beneficial12, and this beneficiality is amplified as one expands their view from a singular stock, to
many, and then eventually, to the entire market.
These VoEx Variance data seek to measure groups of stocks (based on their respective ETF) with
respect to how spread out each of the stocks from within their own group (ETF) are from each
other. As seen below:




12
     Its even a market scan search criteria!

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          08/07/2023
With diagram in hand, let’s plot the real 𝑉𝑉 2 values and see if we find anything interesting:




Curious!
It would appear that prior to all three of the latest market corrections, VoEx Variance began
collapsing across all market sectors!

We can adjust our vantage point with the data to focus on the change in 𝑉𝑉 2 values and plot them,
to ensure that 𝑉𝑉 2 is in-fact “collapsing” prior to larger-market downturns:




And indeed! From this vantage point there are several curious findings:

   1) 𝑉𝑉 2’s median velocity does start decreasing prior to market corrections, and

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           08/07/2023
   2) It would suggest healthy markets have a median 𝑉𝑉 2 that is negative, and
   3) It also echoes our understanding of overheating: prior to market corrections, the bulk of
      VoExes start accelerating in their variance from their counterparts!
Why would this be?
The initial line of reasoning was that prior to
market corrections, VoEx across market sectors
would be spread out within the Influence
Distribution. This was evidenced by distribution
maps made from the prior data. During times of
“collapse” these distributions demonstrated
VoExes would come together, and then rapidly
move together, from the Inhibition Zone to the
Propagation Zone. Graph from Weekly Chat 2023-
06-02 (right) showcases this VoEx migration.
And so, the idea was simple: VoExes would
coalesce into one another prior to a joint-journey
into the Propagation Zone (and thus, indicating
market-wide risk for significant downside) – so all we would have to do is keep an eye out on
VoEx Variance!
This idea was sound but often tedious due to the static nature of both graphics – often
necessitating at least 3 graphs for an adequate view (and once even an animated “movie”!).

Thus, a solution was birthed, and despite its initial absolutely horrendous, appalling appearance,
it really is a nice graph deep on the inside.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       08/07/2023
This graph shows us VoEx Variance (black lines and the dots), and the location of VoExes! The
best of both worlds.
Each pane can only “see” the data that present in that particular field (one of the three VoEx
Zones), including the price data – this allows us to see not only the expansion and contraction of
VoEx Variance but also from where and to where those events are occurring.
With background in hand, let’s look at the data’s interpretation.
                                      Interpretation Process
The first statement the data allow us to make is:
                                   The market is over-heating.
This is evidenced by 𝑉𝑉 2 demonstrating both:
   1) Continued increase in VoEx Variance values, and
   2) This variance is predominantly extending into the Inhibition Zone.
From there, we simply need to look for any evidence that this over-heating is starting to lose
steam. This would be evidence with two main findings:
   1) VoEx Variance begins to fall, and
   2) VoExes (the dots) begin collecting inside of the Propagation Panel.

A few weeks ago, it did appear as though that process was underway (see the quick dip in 𝑉𝑉 2 on
the top panel of the last graph?) but this has since resolved.
We can also see from the rate-of-change of 𝑉𝑉 2 graph that all median rates-of-change for VoEx
Variance are still accelerating.
Thus, the second statement 𝑉𝑉 2 allows us to make :
In combination with the lack of data prints in the Propagation Panel(?) – there seems to be little
                      that the eventual “market correction” is imminent.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        08/07/2023
                                                                     Fin
        Oh boy – that was a lot13!
        Let’s very quickly review what we’ve discussed:

   Data Print         Main View                        Data Print               Interpretation                Timeframe


VoEx                  An equity’s stability            VoEx is in P.Z.          Bearish until proven          Imminent
                                                                                otherwise (BUPO?)

Hedging               Future hedging                   Stable configuration     Can expect purchasing         Within the next 5
Environments          influences                                                support assistance in the     trading days.
                                                                                event of $-/IV+

Dealer Long Puts      Riding the coat-tails of         Zero-to-negative DLP     Lack of confidence in a       Within the next
                      ulta-rich people                 growth.                  $+/IV- week by put sellers.   several days.

MWGS-data             Market-wide view of              GS-growth is             The market is becoming        Short-term onset
                      short gamma                      increasing. Counts are   destabilized with short       with duration until
                                                       well above recent        gamma.                        gamma environment
                                                       averages.                                              changes.

GTM                   Monitoring future                Strange GTM print        Inconclusive - Need more      Near-term
                      gamma flow                                                data.

VoEx Variance         Monitoring inter-sector          No evidence of 𝑉𝑉 2      Market-wide correction        Medium-to-Long
                      VoEx spread and                  collapse underway.       does not appear likely.       term.
                      location




        Typically, neither the Weekly Chats nor the data interpretations are this intensive! But I hope the
        various expansions on the data above are helpful to contextualize the main data prints typically
        seen in the Weekly Chats, along with why DDS looks at them, and what they mean.

        Overall, the week a head looks bearish: we can’t deny that VoEx is inside of the Propagation Zone,
        and its persistence therein is more significant than prior “sparks” of “rapid uncooling” that the
        market has thrown at us.




        13
             Imagine actually writing all this lol help.

        Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                        08/07/2023
This bearish outlook is echoed with our put selling friends: with little-to-no put selling activity
(which has been a theme lately!), there seems to be persistent and continued doubt that selling
delta or volatility should do well in the upcoming markets.

Compounding this bearish outlook are the MWGS charts that demonstrate a growing number of
gamma squeezes and a positive growth-rate. Both of these infer bearish performance in the
future.
GTM, unfortunately, is neutral until these types of data prints are investigated more but do seem
to represent something.
VoEx Variance is confirming our suspicions that the market is over-heating (quite substantially it
would seem), but there are few signs that this over-heating is imminently correcting: 𝑉𝑉 2 has
resumed its positive growth; there are no data-prints within the Propagation Zone; median 𝑉𝑉 2
velocity is positive; all prints that resemble the market kicking the can-o-correction down the road
some.
Taken together, the market is in a high-risk place for reasonable downside on at least the short
and medium timeframes. Last week, I mentioned that testing the LDPM-55 looked like a
reasonable upcoming move for the market, and this seems evermore reasonable. This represents
a ~7% decline on $SPY and a ~-3% decline on $QQQ.

As the data progressively become less “BUPO” and more “sparks of instability are popping up
with increasing frequency and magnitude”, the overall playbook seems to be maintained:
Short Term: high risk for downside, even with significant purchasing support, as long as VoEx is
in the P.Z., I will expect downside.
Medium Term: MWGS-growth and DLP performance seem to be setting the sage for short-term
downside risk extending its time-horizon into a more significant medium-term downside.
Longer Term: these “bearish” data prints do not seem to extend into the more macro views of the
market just yet, despite the “stage being set”. 𝑉𝑉 2 insistence of an over-heating market is in-line
with our views obtained from $SPY and $QQQ. However, it does not appear that the over-heating
has “broken” just yet, as 𝑉𝑉 2-velocity and position are both still pointing upwards, and there are no
data-prints in the Propagation Zone just yet. These data will be important to keep track of,
however, if the market does start testing the foundations of medium-term downside potential
(such as data starting to appear in the Propagation Pane of 𝑉𝑉 2) this would indicate a “rapid de-
overheating” may be imminent, which is typically followed by significant market correction.
                                                 ----
So – all-in-all, welcome all new Premium Members! You have definitely joined at an interesting
time in the market.
I hope this quick introduction to the Weekly Chats has been helpful, and as always
Happy trading,
Justin


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           08/07/2023
