                                   Weekly Chat 2025-07-28


                                          Main Points



    -   VoEx-daily resides betwixt Stability and the Propagation Zone while VoEx continues its
        descent out of stability.
    -   Gamma-hedging environments showcase a stable orientation with selling pressure
        located spot-up and purchasing support located spot-down for both $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   The Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data show continued lethargy and minimal activity.
    -   LDPM/S for ES showcase bullish configurations throughout except for the negative LL-
        Amount and Flow seen on the 987 and 1-Week views.
    -   Prudency suggest bullish performance while keeping an eye on VoEx.

                                          SUMMARY



           VoEx-divergence continues as VOEx descends while price increases.
           Historically this behavior is associated with about a ~1 month lead before
           VoEx exits stability, and the price follows thereafter.

           For now, the road seems to go ever-onward upwards. The gamma hedging
           environments show case the standard orientation as of late: selling
           pressure diffusely surrounding current $/IV while purchasing support is
           only found spot-down. Slight improvements to the hedging algorithm
           suggests that while the orientations are the same, they are not the same
           in magnitudes as $SPY’s purchasing support finds itself more robust than
           its selling pressure, while on $QQQ conditions are opposite.

           MWGS data show a gamma-foundation well at rest with the market
           continuing to rotate around the GS minimum, despite GTMs negative
           inclinations. The predictive data suggest similar environments, with the
           predictive count curve even become negative.

           LDPM/S for ES also showcase bullish skies, which the only patch of
           thunderstorms originating in the higher timeframes (987-minute and 1-
           Week) wherein both have negative Liquidity Levels. This suggests that the
           market is running “on fumes” with little reserves, should the current eager
           bid dry up. In such an even, both find bid support ~4% down.

           Overall, bullish skies with expected duration ~1 month as VoEx continues
           towards the Propagation Zone.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of                2025-07-28 to 2025-08-01
 DETAILS




Hello all!
For the past few weeks, there has been a general sense of “up” but “up” in the sense of when one
is reaching near the top of a rollercoaster: an up that is tantalizing and caution-provoking. To this
end, the market moved $SPY upwards +1.52%, while $QQQ moved 0.91% to the north. These
moves can be visualized in the heatmaps below:




We can see that the selling pressure did little to deter our friends from moving upwards, all the
while the purchasing support on $QQQ seems to have had a chance to provide a small bump
upwards for our friend.
This week, the goal is simple: keep monitoring the up and derive some plans therefrom!

Therein, Therefore, Therewith, Thereupon
Starting as usual with VoEx:




Here we see VoEx-daily residing (as if it were the old VoEx!) between the Propagation Zone and
Stability. This gives neutral impressions. VoEx itself is still within stability, but we can see for both
$SPY and $QQQ the downwards shift is well underway. In our views above, we see that journey



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                 2025-07-28 to 2025-08-01
from its current position until below the Propagation Zone, should all continue as in the past,
takes about ~2 months. And so the outlook appears straightforward from VoEx: up for about two
months and if VoEx should continue to degrade, downside should follow.
In the near-term, this remains a bullish outlook! With this in mind, let’s take a look at the gamma-
hedging heatmaps (as well as talk about some improvements coming their way):




Much the same!
And that’s boring and unhelpful! I’ve still been scratching my head with the heatmaps with regards
to how to exactly visualize the underlying behavior occurring. In the current set up, the way the
algorithm chooses the colors is a tad – misleading in a way. In short: the current set up doesn’t
do a good job of 1) understanding the data in relation to itself, and 2) keeping itself sufficiently
guarded from IV.
To this end, I’ve been tinkering more and think I have found a reasonable solution. In short:

   1- IV has become blended. There are several steps in which IV pokes its head into the mix,
      both during the directionalization process as well as the hedging behavior algorithm but
      not all IVs are created equal. The heatmap algorithm (shown above) currently only takes
      in the IV surface, per strike. From this, it is used to calculate anticipated values (future
      values such as such “how much do these values change 1 day into the future” (to mimic
      expiry) while also being a direct input into the calculations upon those hypothetical
      changes (by way of the x-axis IV values, which are derived from equity’s IV value, not the
      option or vol-surface). Thus, striking the balance between “I want to know what hedging
      will look like in this situation and here are some synthetic parameters” and “here are the
      current, realistic parameters” becomes a tad tricky throughout the whole process.
      Thus, in short, the IV handling has been upgraded some with a hybrid mix achieved
      between the vol surface used to calculate the raw data (and thus, needs to be used in the
      calculation of future anticipated raw data) and the equity’s whole IV. This achieves a better
      bridge between the individual option and the overall hedging practices predicated on
      equity IV.
   2- The coloring algorithm for the graphs was also suffering from being unable to discern
      between “significant” purchasing and selling. Originally, this problem was overcome by an
      rudimentary algorithm designed to find the gamma-neutral zone but one of the side-effect
      is (as we can see above) that it has a tendency to understand the options field as either
      “red” or “blue” rather than to appreciate the nuances within each of those fields.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-07-28 to 2025-08-01
Its important to note that the underlying data has not been changed, only the manner by which
the data are simulated for future conditions (IV blending), and how the differences between the
data are appropriately displayed to demonstrate both the direction and magnitude of the hedging.
To that end, here are the updated heatmaps! (These will be appearing in the upcoming dashboard
update):




Here we can immediately see the benefits of the changes!
   -   More detail in $SPY can be parsed out when we utilize the IV blending to ensure the
       hedging reflects both the change in the vol-surface on the derivatives as well as the equity
       IV. This has worked to identify a greater amount of purchasing support than previously
       identified, in particular in the [𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] direction (which is a nice confirmation that indeed it
       was inappropriate IV handling causing “blanket” heatmaps), and
   -   With better resolution between the two groups, we can see that the selling pressure and
       purchasing support “magnitudes” are not the same, as previously suggested. In fact, we
       can see that even those the orientation of $SPY and $QQQ are the same (that is, selling
       pressure located spot-up while purchasing support located spot-down), the magnitudes
       are not! $SPY seems to have more significant purchasing support with respect to its own
       selling pressure (and in comparison to $QQQ’s) which is opposite of $QQQ’s condition
       which showcases greater selling pressure (magnitude) than purchasing support below.
All that to say: it looks like there is light selling pressure spot-up for $SPY with a tad more selling
pressure spot-up on $QQQ while $SPY sees some reasonable purchasing support spot-down (and
moreso in the 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − direction). This bodes reasonably well for continued upwards mobility but
combined weakness between the two heatmaps suggests a [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + ] move could find itself
without much support (by way of the diminishing purchasing support for $SPY in the IV+ direction
and $QQQ’s more diffuse purchasing support).
Moving onwards, let’s check on the market-wide gamma squeeze MWGS data:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2025-07-28 to 2025-08-01
                                                     On the left (left) we see persistently
                                                     increasing-but-negative GS growth curves
                                                     while GS counts mainly hover in place around
                                                     575-625ish. In addition, we see a continuously
                                                     negative GTM, suggesting short-gamma is the
                                                     net flowing force into the market currently.
                                                     For now, this is a bullish print! Until we start
                                                     seeing (which we thought we saw 2 weeks
                                                     ago) sustained GS growth, then things look
                                                     pretty decent in gamma squeeze land!




Moving to the predictive counts, we see:

Largely the same! The predictive count curve (orange) is negative and pointed downwards, telling
us the algorithm thinks continued GS destruction is within reason.
In combination with this is the predictive growth curve (purple) which shows negative values,
indicating a persistent “breaking pressure” applied to GS growth.
In short: these data agree with the traditional data! The future, for now, looks sparsely populated
                                                   with gamma squeezes!
                                                             Moving onwards, let’s check on
                                                             LDPM/S for ES:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2025-07-28 to 2025-08-01
Bullish prints all about! And most noteworthy is the final resolution of the bear-trap, as seen on
the weekly view! This newfound bullish candle (as per LDPS) while moving above LDPM-144 is a
strong indicator that the overarching bear-trap has finally dissolved.
The only hurdle between a full-blown bullish outlook for now are the negative LL-Amount and Flow
found on both the 987-minute and the 1-week (bottom-left, bottom-right, respectively) views.
Should the market need to rest on the liquidity within these tanks (bullish liquidity, that is) it will
find minimal fuel to do so. In such an event, the next organic bids to “tap” into for bullish liquidity
are about ~5% down, as seen by LDPM-L7(610) on the 987-minute (bottom-left) and LDPM-
L6(355) on the 1-Week (bottom-right).
Thus, it seems the outlook is set along with the signs to keep an eye out for, should conditions
start to change:

   -     VoEx suggests up is still the name of the game, and if history should be any precedent,
         then current conditions and behavior suggest another month at least of upwards mobility
         until VoEx starts flirting with the lower boundary of stability, but
   -     Should:
             → VoEx rapidly move into the Propagation Zone, or
             → GS counts start skyrocketed, or
         → Selling pressure (as seen from the heatmaps) work into the market and attempt to rest
             on lingering bullish liquidity,

         Then then the current minimally-bullish-liquidity-fueled (as seen on ES via LL) will be at
         risk of failing for a ~4% drop for an organic bid.
Happy Trading,
Justin



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2025-07-28 to 2025-08-01
