                                   Weekly Chat 2025-05-26


                                         Main Points



    -   VoEx remains within stability along with VoEx-daily giving bullish impressions.
    -   Hedging environments are filled with purchasing support for both $SPY and $QQQ, with
        a hefty selling-pressure overhead located spot-up.
    -   The MWGS data showcases stagnant data except for GTM which is still printing
        substantially negative prints.
    -   DLP activity remains subdued.
    -   LDPM/S investigations suggest near-term weakness.
    -   Prudency suggest preparing for downside in the midst of calm seas.

                                          SUMMARY

          Overall the data appear to be pleasant on the surface, which VoEx residing
          within stability (despite VoEx-daily’s seemingly rapid move to the
          boundary line), and the MWGS data showcase continued GS remittance.

          These data, and their resulting bullish outlook, are over-shadowed by the
          prospect of bubbling turbulence below the surface, which can be seen via
          the lack of DLP activity, and the near-term weakness noted via LDPM/S on
          $ES and $VX.

          Taken together, these paint a bullish picture that is being hung up onto the
          wall by a small tac.

          Outlook is up but prudency suggests bracing for turbulence.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of              2025-06-02 to 2025-06-06
                                              DETAILS




Hello every-body! Last week, we left off with bearish ideations and it would seem this week had
other plans! The week-over-week moves for $SPY stand at 1.78% while for $QQQ they stand at
1.93%. Not too shabby but definitely not bearish moves.
Let’s take a peek at these moves through the lens of the heatmaps:




Here, we can see $QQQ nuzzled nicely into the enclave of purchasing support in the [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −]
direction but found itself seemingly without anywhere else to go, and so things stalled. $SPY
seems to have bounced serendipitously off of the purchasing support on its journeys in similar
fashion. Overall, not too exciting of a week, and let’s hope the data are that way as well!
Let’s get started and see what we can find.
The data
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see:




Here we see things are still within stability! And so, let’s not fuss about the details too much as
we have been keen to do lately. Things are in stability and so the outlook is up!



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-06-02 to 2025-06-06
Moving onwards to the gamma-hedging heatmaps, we find:




Here we see a very vast sea of purchasing support for both $SPY and $QQQ! Both present, as a
counter-balance to this offence-of-nature, with a ceiling of selling pressure located spot-up in all
directions. This gives wholly bullish impressions for the week ahead as the purchasing support
looks poised to scoot things along quite handsomely.
Do our put-selling neighbors agree?




Still no! A very strange silence from the Dealer Long Put crowd1. This suggests there is still too
much risk in taking large inventories of dealer long puts, and so they simply don’t. To have such
freedom!
Moving onwards, so far we have seen pretty bullish sights, despite the continued lethargy from
our financial overlords. Given the recent bullish moves, this seems a reasonable expectation – so
can we find data elsewhere that might contradict this? Let’s keep looking.
First up, let’s check the Market-Wide Gamma squeeze data for any signs of anything:




1
    I even double checked the algorithms and data for any bugs! But nope. Things seem eerily quiet still from them.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                     for the week of                   2025-06-02 to 2025-06-06
                                                   On the left we see on the top
                                                   graph a small increase in
                                                   the growth curve towards
                                                   zero. This coincides to a
                                                   casual increase in gamma
                                                   squeezes over the past 2
                                                   weeks of: 2.
                                                   Overall, these data seem
                                                   relatively mild, until you
                                                   arrive at GTM, which is
                                                   showcasing      a     pretty
                                                   persistent negative outlook.
                                                   This suggests there is still
                                                   quite the surge of short
                                                   gamma making its way to
                                                   the markets.

                                                   A     frustratingly   mixed
                                                   position! Quiet on the
                                                   surface but there seems to
                                                   be bubbles rapidly rising up
                                                   ready to make some waves.

                                                   Let’s check in on the slightly
                                                   updated MWGS data to see
                                                   if any of these bubbles have
                                                   made their way into the
                                                   predictive systems:



Not quite! We see the PCC
(Predictive Count Curve;
brown line) is still facing
downwards while the PGC
(Predictive Growth Curve;
purple     line)     hovers
menacingly just below the
surface.
For now, it appears GTM is
alone         in       its
measurements.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat   for the week of   2025-06-02 to 2025-06-06
Moving on wards, let’s check on LDPM/S to ensure they don’t hold any surprises for the
developing bullish expectations:




It would seem that in the upper-left corner, we have near found bearishness (90-minute, top-left,
LDPS on balanced).
Zooming out and arriving at the 144-minute, we see an admittedly strange sight as it appears as
though LDPM-L5(144) has kept its position as a persistent organic ask, even as the price has
migrated from LDPM-L6. If LDPM-L5 had, instead, stayed along the dashed-line trajectory (i.e.:
stayed above LDPM-L6) then this configuration would have leaned slightly towards the bullish but
with the inversion of LDPM-L5, things start looking like the start of a bearish LDPM stack with
LDPM-L7 looking like the only bid in town.

To that extent, should one want to impose some excitement in our expectations, we can see that
the recent movements against LDPM-L5 have pushed liquidity bearish along with a general
weakening of bullish liquidity since around the 29th.
In our handy-dandy hand-drawn view in the lower-right corner (987-minute) we see continued
enforcement of the organic ask at LDPM-L7(610). Current the outlook is still bull-trap as the first
anticipated “junction” of LDPM-L6 and LDPM-L7 approach. It may be worth noting that the LDPM-
L7 floor on the 144-minute is the LDPM-L6 floor on the 987-minute.
With that in mind, we zoom up to the 1-Week view, which showcases an eager bid moving up
through the organic ask at LDPM-L6. This is still technically a beartrap as LDPS is still painting
conditions bearish.



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-06-02 to 2025-06-06
Much like the start of last week, this paints a bearish picture for the time ahead as both the 90-
minute and the 144-minute show signs of resistance against a fully bullish regime.
Let’s check on VX to see if this sentiment is echoed:




Now, these data excite!
We see a wholly bullish outlook on the 90-minute, with LDPS printing bullish prints while being in
a newly established bullish LDPM stack.
From there, we zoom out to the 144-minute (top-right) where we see two (2!) layers of organic bid
that have now oriented themselves under spot. However, despite this, its seems that transactions
are being heavily pushed down to this organic bid (traditionally you would see a eager distance
between the organic layer and spot grow as the eager parties supply liquidity further up and up).
This is a headscratcher but made slightly more clear as we move over to the 987-minute.

On the 987-minute (bottom-left) we see a bullish LDPM configuration holding very strong all-the-
while it appears transactions are being pushed down to the bid! Such significant push-to-the-bid
is often only shorting and the fact that LDPM refuses to acknowledge this bearishness (in both
price action and liquidity) with inversion of its bullish stack (which then, keeps this all as a
beartrap!).
Moving upwards more to the 1-week view, we arrive at a strange sight: a magic trick of sorts as a
bulltrap looks to be resisting l’appel du vide of returning back to and below the bearish LDPM
stack. To this end, we can see LDPMs have started bending northwards, suggesting the ask is



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-06-02 to 2025-06-06
getting quite aggressive in trying to pull things further down (LDPS is even printing `Eager Ask`
for us!).
This is … strange. I’m not sure why such shorting would be necessary or wise when, relatively
speaking, $VX is already quite low.
In any case, it is not for me to understand but to contextualize: $VX looks to be being suppressed.
For now, it appears this suppression has been successful but LDPM’s resistance towards
converting away from a bear-trap on the 987-minute while bullish configurations appear on the
shorter timeframes suggests that the current regime might have an upcoming test of portfolio
management skills on the horizon.
All together, this paints again a market of bullish steam that’s coasting along a slight precipice:
whereas VoEx is within stability (we should check out VoEx Variance soon), there is minimal DLP
activity; whereas MWGS data appear calm on the surface, GTM has printed substantial warning
signs of an encroaching short-gamma wave; whereas the $VX seems well subdued this
subduction appears persistently forced with diminishing returns.
Thus, the outlook is technically bullish but with substantial caution as to the risk nearby.
Happy trading!


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-06-02 to 2025-06-06
