                                  Weekly Chat 2026-04-13


                                        Main Points



       -   VoEx-daily has experienced a massive spike on both $SPY and $QQQ.
       -   Hedging environments have cooled and demonstrate persistent purchasing support
           spot-down.
       -   MWGS data demonstrate a endothermic GS environment with the predictive data
           concurrently demonstrating a chilled future.
       -   LS&T showcase support for mean-reversion on the near-term with long-term
           stability seemingly returned.

                                        SUMMARY



           Overall, this week’s substantial increase in spot may have
           threatened sanctity of a mean-reversion-less future, and so the
           primary expectation rests thereupon a foundation of profit-takers,
           and LT ceilings (by way of LS&T data) conjoined via the grout of
           purchasing support (provided by the gamma-hedging heatmaps).

           The environment overall is showing signs of changing, however,
           such that the mean-reversion is likely not to be a return-to-downside,
           but, if the data are to be believed, may represent a small hiccup in
           the overall, and larger, return to bullish paradigm.

           Thus, downside is expected but not as before, merely as a
           byproduct of the bulls awakening.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat        for the week of             2026-04-13 to 2026-04-17
                                                 DETAILS




Hello all!
                                             Quick Note:
Registration has completed ! Remember as Premium members, you have access to thew hole of
DDS’ repertoire, so if there is anything you don’t have access to, let me know! Here’s a quick list:
        -     TradingView Indicators: LS (old LDPS), LT (old LDPM), Liquidity Toolkit
        -     Discord server
Just let me know and you’ll be added forthwith! After our chat, I’ll include the next stage of plans
for DDS and you!

Back to regularly scheduled programming:
                                                   --
Last week we eyed the potential for a bounce but considered downside as the persistent and
prominent threat. To this end, the market ($SPY) moved 3.60%, while $QQQ moved 4.45%! These
are quite the opposite of downside.

Such significant spot sublimation suggests a statutory investigation into the spectre of mean
reversion would be salient, so let’s start:
      Stock                     Expected Price          Realized Price     % Magnitude
                                Range (T+5)             Range              Difference

      $SPY                         2.25                    3.67                    47%

      $QQQ                         2.65                    4.30                    47%

Curiously both moved 47% greater than their magnitudes suggested! You love a co-ordinated
market. These values are definitely within the threat-range for invoking the spectre of ~mean
reversion~ and so let’s be sure to keep him in mind.

The market moved quite curiously this week, as we can see in the heatmaps below:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2026-04-13 to 2026-04-17
Namely by way of its early-week decision to crank IV way up in order to seemingly reposition for
later-week 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − excursions, ultimately leading to a pronounced and strong $+ future.
Thus, this week, our job is not too straightforward but I suppose it can’t deviate too much from
“is the future up or down” but we have to be particularly sensitive to the idea that the bottom of
this little market downturn may have been reached – a bold statement which requires some bold
data, so let’s dive in!
Boldness begets
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see:




Substantial VoEx-daily spikes! This is a bit more than usual, and is most reminiscent to end-of-
downside VoEx-daily spikes than your typical bulltrap ones. This, is one point to house the-
bottom-is-in!
In the near-term this gives us bullish inclinations and a strong indication that the paradigm is
switching but let’s not forget about mean-reversion in the otherwise bullish showing.
Moving onwards to the hedging heatmaps we find:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2026-04-13 to 2026-04-17
The heatmaps have reverted to a boring state! It would seem the market has settled with regards
to the options dealers which has produced some nice purchasing support below spot (at the cost
of the selling pressure above). Current conditions show the market ever-so slightly dipped within
the purchasing support already.
Moving onwards to the market-wide gamma squeezes, we find:




Growth seems to have decreased quite substantially this week, with the growth-curve moving into
negative territory – this is usually another sign of the bottom having been reached!
If we check with the predictive data, they tell a similar story:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of            2026-04-13 to 2026-04-17
The PGC (expected future growth rate) is negative! This tells us that the expectation is that there
will be a greater magnitude of GS destruction in the future than was just recently experienced –
this is also usually the sign of a bottom.
So, it seems that on-the-whole, conditions look as though a bottom has been found – although
the definitive conclusion thereof will come by way of VoEx moving into stability, but should
present conditions continue, this looks to be the most likely eventuality.
Moving lastly onwards to the LS& data, we find:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2026-04-13 to 2026-04-17
Starting with the highest-vantage point at the weekly, we find the LT7 support held quite robustly,
and liquidity has returned to bullish while spot rises to meet LT5. Concurrently, we find LT1 & 2
moving in (dip-buyers) to help move spot up.
If we zoom in some to the 987-minute, however, we find the inverse is prominent: a bulltrap
reaching to LT6 with LT1 demonstrating profit-takers kicking in.
On the 90-, and 144-minute, we find bullish liquidity but a healthy dose of profit-takers, and in
particular, on the 90-minute, we find spot having already fallen below LT5. This is a relatively
classic “post aggressive bid cascade” showing whereby we would normally expect liquidity to
slowly turn bearish as spot enters the liquidity vacuum between LT5 and LT6 (or LT7 on the 144-
minute).

Thus, taken together, and in remembrance of the sepctre of mean-reversion, it seems likely that
the combined ceilings of LT5 on the weekly, LT6 on the 987, L5 on the 90-minute, and the myriad
of profit-takers moving in, that a near-term reunion of spot and LT6 (90-minute) is likely. This
reunion is currently slated to meet about 3.5% down for current spot.
However, the data do suggest that even in spite of this near-term downside expectation, there is
sufficient reason, and cause, to suspect the current market downturn may be over – as hard a pill
as that may be to swallow! It may be time to loosen our grips on the short positions built up over
the past month and expect a pivot nearby – perhaps this week will provide just the opportunity
therefor!
Happy Trading, Justin



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2026-04-13 to 2026-04-17
                                 Quick Word about the Future!

I haven’t forgotten about you, premium members! The good news is the live data is now actually
live – although it is presently confined to the discord, the foundation and abilities are
transferrable!
I am working on a new framework for a new dashboard – finally ! I think I am slowly morphing
into a programmer with all these tools. Anyways, the goal is to bring the dashboard up to modern
sensibilities as the first round of improvements and updates, followed by the addition of long-
awaited data and abilities (which are now quite within view since now I know how databases
work!).
For now, development on new indicators and tools (and even fixing the broken ones, i.e.: DLP
measurements) is on hold as I bring DDS up to modernity and bring in new subscribers to further
fund our excursions into liquidity.
If you have any comments/thoughts/concerns/snide remarks, please don’t hesitate to throw
them my way as I start laying the blueprints for the next stage.


Justin!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of              2026-04-13 to 2026-04-17
