                                       Weekly Chat 2025-12-01


                                              Main Points



       -   VoEx-daily has spiked into the Inhibition Zone while VoEx remains within the
           Propagation Zone.
       -   Gamma-hedging environments showcase proximal selling pressure on $SPY with
           proximal purchasing support on $QQQ. Both have a “stable” orientation.
       -   Gamma-squeeze counts have decreased substantially but the predictive counts
           are still positive.
       -   LS&T investigation shows bullish liquidity and evidence of continued bounce.
           BTC/VX composite chart shows continued expectations for large VX spike.
       -   Overall, expectation that the bounce will continue but the data do not support the
           end to downside expectations.

                                               SUMMARY


           Last week, the overall expectation was a bounce and the same follows for this
           week.

           VoEx-daily has spiked into stability and until it returns to the P.Z., the outlook is
           near-term price appreciation. VoEx remains in PZ, and so this near-term price
           appreciation is likely to be followed by return-to-downside.

           Gamma-squeeze environments showcase stable layouts (selling pressure spot-
           up and purchasing support spot-down) on $SPY and $QQQ but with $SPY
           surrounded by selling pressure and $QQQ by purchasing support.

           The gamma-squeeze amounts have decreased as expected given the large $+
           throughout the market. The predictive counts still suggest greater numbers of GS
           in the future than presently, suggesting the market is simply “out-running” the
           gamma squeeze lurking below.

           LS&T investigation on ES shows bullish liquidity on all fronts with evidence of a
           2% ceiling but these bullish LS prints come with additional caution by way of
           evidence of incoming and significant profit-taking, and bulltrap LT orientations. A
           look at BTC/VX composite chart shows continued expectation for a spike in
           volatility.

           Overall, reasonable evidence to suggest another ~2% bounce with return to
           downside expected.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                    2025-12-01 to 2025-12-05
                                             DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, there were notions of a market ready to bounce, and bounce it did! $SPY bounced
3.69% while $QQQ moved 2.3%. We can visualize these moves below:




The week threaded the needle quite well on $SPY, with the right amounts of [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 −] to keep
things moving up-and-to-the-left without running into the ridge of selling pressure lurking below.
This is best viewed on $SPY’s heatmap (left) due to $QQQ’s purchasing support inundation.
Kudos to the market makers and option dealers!
This week, the plan then is straightforward: let us investigate the data d’habitude and then
recalibrate our expectations; is the bounce a single-week entity or should we expand our bounce-
horizons?
To bounce is to Human
Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-12-01 to 2025-12-05
VoEx-daily spikes! One might remember from last week’s chat:

                                                 “
 If we take the data on face-value, things are worsening and downside is still the predominant
expectations. If we take the data with regard to any potential patterns that might be forming, we
  arrive at a similar conclusion (that of downside) but one that is augmented slightly with the
                   possibility for an incoming VoEx-daily spike and $+-bounce.
                                “ – Last week’s chat (2025-11-24)
And so, the pattern lives on ! The good news is this puts us in familiar territory, the bad news is
you never know if a pattern is broken until it’s broken! You can choose which side you would like
to take on this one.
For now, these spikes produce visions of spot flat-to-up until VoEx-daily spikes back into the
Propagation Zone, at which time we can be doubly-certain that the pattern has held (without much
knowledge as to if it will hold), with subsequent downside likely to follow.
Thus, it seems per our first viewing of the data, the bounce appears set to continue (until VoEx-
daily moves back into the PZ), so let’s check in on the gamma hedgers to see how they might fare
with this news:




Its always $SPY! We see similar layouts on both $SPY (left) and $QQQ (right) whereby they are
filled to the gills with gamma-hedging requirements, with selling pressure located spot-up and
purchasing support located spot-down. For $SPY, this selling pressure is moreso local and
proximate, technically placing $SPY in a slight gamma squeeze (since selling pressure is present
on $− ). Should the two influence one another in the upcoming days then it looks like if the gamma-
hedging has its way, the market will see wide swings (as things bounce between spot-up $QQQ
selling pressure with current-spot $SPY selling pressure and spot-down with $SPY’s purchasing
support and $QQQ’s current-spot purchasing support) with minimal overall movement throughout
the week.
In other words: choppy and flat!
It should be noted though the full picture is choppy-and-flat with downside as the final resolution
still.
Moving onwards let’s check the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data:


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of                2025-12-01 to 2025-12-05
A large reduction in
gamma-squeeze amounts!
Although this shouldn’t be
too surprising to those
keeping tabs at home,
namely due to the regular
observation of late wherein
a large move in spot leaves
many       gamma-squeeze
behind, resulting in a topical
net-reduction (for so long
as the market can “outrun”
those gamma squeezes).
On the surface, this paints a
picture of bullish ideations
but for me it strikes
reminiscences of 2025-01-
03!

Let’s check in with the
predictive data to see what
they say:


                                                                             On the left, we can see
                                                                             the brakes have been
                                                                             applied to GS growth
                                                                             from     last week’s
                                                                             neutral stance (the
                                                                             Predictive      Growth
                                                                             Curve [purple]) is
                                                                             negative but for now
                                                                             the overall “velocity”
                                                                             (predictive       count
                                                                             curve        [brownish-
                                                                             orange]) is positive.
                                                                             The     interpretation?
                                                                             The future’s GS count
                                                                             is expected to be more
                                                                             than present (velocity
is positive) but less than previously expected (acceleration is negative).




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-12-01 to 2025-12-05
Does this foretell bullish futures? No, not by itself – but rather it foretells of a future that’s more
stable that present, which, given the current `stability` has prompted a 3%+ move last week, does
beg the question regarding what such a stable future might encourage in spot’s performance.
So overall, it appears the market is apt to continue its bounce – but before we give that outlook a
seal of approval, let’s check in with LS&T:




This is a messy scene!
On the 90-minute [top-left] we find a scene of recent profit-taking during which time two candles
of bearish liquidity were produced. This suggests said profit-taking was starting to over-take the
available bullish supply. Nonetheless the selling ceased and bullish liquidity returned (you can see
the lower-order LTs dipping below the second-to-last candle!). Thus, the return of bullish liquidity
may be less of “a return of bullish liquidity” and more a function of diminished selling pressure
(and thus, diminished introduction of bearish liquidity) resulting in a relative increase in bullish
liquidity and thus the candles are now back to green. It is worth noting, that if one were to
relinquish any preconceived notions on LT5’s role (namely that of being an `organic`), it might
appear as though it is behaving as an eager: its northward bend is quite in-line and in sequence
with the other profit-taking LTs moving up to spot.
On the 144-minute we find a bear-stack and a bull-trap with a recent aggressive-bid cascade. Once
more, we can see LT5 is behaving awfully similar to its lower-order counter-parts by way of
pivoting upwards in-sequence and on-time in joining in on the “wave” occurring. The consequence
of this is a point towards “flat” price-action as LT5 would move up to spot and provide continued
downwards pressure on this bull-trap. The only caveat to that being the most expected outcome
is the small kink regarding the “waves” broken-nature: namely that of spot having moved above
one of the eager LTs already during the wave - this is typically associated with “the [scoop/wave]


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2025-12-01 to 2025-12-05
not being respected” which translates to: the wave is insufficient to keep spot down (or the scoop
insufficient to bring spot back up).
Moving onwards to the 987-minute [bottom-left], we find the bounce we expected (off of LT7) but
recent prints have produced a bullish candle as spot moved through LT5.
Lastly, the weekly shows bullish liquidity as LT5 holds.
Taken together, these three print a picture of a continued bounce. This is evidenced mainly by the
bullish liquidity on the 90-, 144-, and 987-minute occurring along side both of the profit-taking
“waves” not being respected. In looking for a ceiling, one finds LT-6 at $6,974-ish, which sits about
2% up still.
Thus, it seems reasonable to expect a 2% jump in the week ahead furthermore, with special
consideration at if price reaches towards LT6 on the 987-minute.
Before we sign off on the outlook of a continued bounce in the presence of over-arching
downside, let’s assure ourselves we aren’t holding needlessly onto old outlooks. What is it that
suggests downside is still proximal?
         -   VoEx is in the PZ,
         -   PCC is positive,
         -   BTC / VX is still bearish (shown below)




These three data seem sufficient.
Bounce of ~2% with eventual downside to follow evermore !
Happy Trading,
Justin



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2025-12-01 to 2025-12-05
