                                  Weekly Chat 2026-02-23


                                        Main Points


       -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ remain in the Propagation Zone.
       -   Gamma-hedging environments demonstrate diffuse purchasing support
           throughout; $SPY finds itself with an upper-limit to the magnitude of IV decrease
           available.
       -   Market-wide gamma squeeze data have cooled along with the predictive data but
           expected future counts still remain higher than current.
       -   LS&T analysis show cases several bulltrap formations with nearby ceilings around
           1% north.

                                        SUMMARY



           Last week the expectation as downside but upside was
           experienced. This week, the two look to be conjoined as the outlook
           is upside.

           An appreciatory market is expected briefly by way of VoEx-daily
           appearing to start another migration northward; a showing that is
           nascent but perhaps not worthy of being tossed aside.

           The gamma-hedging heatmaps indicate diffuse purchasing support
           which would help bring this soft showing into reality. $SPY finds
           itself with a bit of a 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − boundary, whereby if IV drops too
           precariously in pursuit of $+ , $SPY’s gamma-hedgers are liable to
           introduce selling pressure.

           LS & T data showcase bulltraps on the 90-, and 144-minute intervals
           supported by an aggressive bid on the 987-minute. The weekly
           liquidity remains bullish.

           In some, it looks like the market is poised, and would be supported,
           in pursuit of a ~1% jump (to the LT resistances noted below) but the
           overall expectation for the market on longer-horizons continues to
           be bearish.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat        for the week of              2026-02-23 to 2026-02-27
                                             DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we left off with ideations of downside for the short-week ahead, and it seems not all
good streaks last as the market worked against our predictions by way of $SPY moving 1.12% to
the positive while $QQQ moved 1.14% as well! These positive moves negativeize our mood
somewhat but let’s distract from our detraction with the heatmaps from last week:




It would seem we hugged (quite precariously!) the boundary zone between purchasing support
and selling pressure, on both $SPY and $QQQ with the market being able to successfully navigate
the turbulent waters without falling into the abyss.
Good job, market!

This week, let’s see if the abyss has grown larger and closer or if this week’s showing-of-the-bull
has provoked some concern and fear, pushing back the certainty of uncertain downside.
Certainty begets Uncertainty
Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2026-02-23 to 2026-02-27
Continued downside expectations! This comes by way of VoEx and VoEx-daily residing within the
Propagation Zone for both $SPY and $QQQ.
There is some evidence in the local environment of VoEx-daily looking to spike upwards, perhaps
setting the stage for a price bump but for now, VoEx-daily remains in the P.Z. and so too much
our expectations.
Let’s see how the hedging environments might augment the market in the week ahead: will it aid
the uncertainty or anchor the market in bullish performance?




It would seem the market is poised to introduce certainty by way of a calm purchasing support
all around. The only hiccup to this plan is $SPY’s limit on available IV reduction prior to the
introduction of selling pressure, a hindrance not shared by $QQQ, who finds robust purchasing
support throughout.

This sets the stage well for perhaps a dramatic week upwards as $SPY and constituents might
be “squeezed” to move up without moving IV down – a long-callers dream!
Thus, in combination with a hopeful viewing of VoEx-daily (such that it appears to be starting
another spike and thus foretelling of a $+ ) and the purchasing support found on $SPY and $QQQ,
one making an argument for a quick bounce would not find their task a difficult one.
Moving onwards, let’s check in on the market-wide gamma squeeze data. Overall, the week saw
a reduction in gamma
squeezes (927 → 809; -
12%) and the predictive
data suggest another
week of slowdown is
expected,     as     the
predictive growth curve
is back into negative
territory.
Thus, the week ahead
does appear to have a
less of a gamma-
squeeze burden on its



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of             2026-02-23 to 2026-02-27
hands than did the week prior – a finding that also supports a quick-bounce-narrative.

Looking into the LS&T data, we find:




Of note:
         -   The 90-minute finds itself in a bull-trap without evidence of profit-taking.
         -   The 144-minute finds itself in a bulltrap with LT7 poised to be tested next.
         -   The 987-minute finds an aggressive bid having entered, helping move spot up.
         -   The weekly finds some dip-buying moving down to help spot bounce from LT4 while
             liquidity remains bullish.
Overall, these do paint a picture of a bull-trap bounce. In attempting to find a target, I don’t think
$7,005 is unreasonable, as it is the ceiling found on the 987-minute (LT7) and the weekly (LT5).
From there, a re-evaluation of conditions will likely need to be performed – in particular, checking
in on the lower-order timeframes to see if as spot approaches those limits, we see an influx of
profit-takers which may signal the early entrance of, well, asks.

Overall, conditions still appear bearish on the longer-term but in the interim, the market looks
poised for a quick bounce around ~1% northward. Once there, another dip-stick check of the
market will likely be prudent.
Happy trading!
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2026-02-23 to 2026-02-27
