                                       Weekly Chat 2025-11-17


                                              Main Points



       -   VoEx for $SPY and $QQQ remain within the Propagation Zone.
       -   Gamma-hedging heatmaps are set to provide robust purchasing support in $− and
           robust selling pressure in the opposite.
       -   Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze data showcase an increase in GS counts and an
           increase in the predictive values.
       -   LS&T investigation for ES showcases continued bearish prints with a potential
           floor 7% down.
       -   Composite Chart of BTC/VX continues to paint a future of VX spiking while BTC
           underperforms.

                                               SUMMARY


           Last week, there was concern for a bounce then downside. In the interim between
           then and now the market did in fact bounce and then slide back down.

           The data in consequence have re-affirmed their downside expectations by way of
           placing VoEx within the Propagation Zone, increasing the GS counts, increasing
           the predictive GS data (suggesting a future with faster GS growth than present),
           bearish liquidity on ES up to and including the 987-minute, and finally, the BTC/VX
           composite chart showcasing bearish liquidity.

           The only dissenting voice is the gamma-hedging heatmap, which shows an
           environment poised to offer purchasing support in the event of $−, but the relative
           efficacy of this purchasing support in the face of a mass sell-off is, unfortunately,
           unforeseeable by our views.

           Overall, the data continue to paint expectations of downside, with some evidence
           that a low-volume week (characterized by minimal market participants other than
           gamma hedging and other miscellaneous, structural flows) might allow for an
           unsteady float upwards.

           In barring the exclusion of the market participants from the market, one finds
           prudency looking down over a cliff, which stretches about 7% down to the ledge
           at LT-6 below.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                    2025-11-17 to 2025-11-21
                                               DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we left off with ominous ramblings about impending downside. To this effect, $SPY
fell up 0.14% while $QQQ fell down -0.14%. What symmetry!
We can visualize this week in the heatmaps below:




In our discussions, we talked about the market not letting IV drop too much, should it try the
[$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] route. This seems to have happened in part – the market migrated towards 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − until the
boundary was met, after which time spot dropped and IV skyrocketed in an apparent attempt to
move towards gamma neutrality.
It would appear things might be getting interesting!

Let’s start off this week with the data as usual and then discuss some upgrades coming your way!
Start here
Starting with VoEx, we see:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                 2025-11-17 to 2025-11-21
Persistent findings!

VoEx-daily remains in the Propagation Zone (one might note that the early-week moves provoked
some instability by way of a VoEx-daily spike!) while VoEx is diving deeper therein as well.
Bearish is as bearish does!
These data paint a picture of near-term, imminent downside that is slated to have reasonable
duration! (~1 Month+).
In contrast to VoEx’s bearish prints, however, we find the gamma hedging heatmaps, which offers
a contrarian view by way of showing the anticipated gamma-hedging practices to come in the
weeks ahead:




Quite substantial purchasing support! It seems the market was well-spooked enough this week
to take out significant insurance (read: puts) to increase the amount of down-stream purchasing
support (and upstream selling pressure).

Nonetheless, this does suggest the current of hedging will be flowing quite ostensibly towards
“stability” (selling into $+ and buying into $-) – perhaps something to keep in mind should spot
overpower the omnipotent hedging forces.
Moving onwards, we can check in on the market wide gamma squeeze data, which shows
substantial growth as well as an increase in the predictive data, as seen below:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of              2025-11-17 to 2025-11-21
The changes are mounting: month-over-month sees a 26% increase in GS counts, with the past
week accounting for 10% of said growth!
Additionally, in the predictive data, we find continued growth in expectations as well! The
expectations for future velocity (orange-brown line) and acceleration (purple line) are both rising,
indicating that the future is expected to have a high rate-of-growth of gamma squeezes and a
higher acceleration of growth of gamma squeezes!

In other words: then local tide of gamma-hedging via $SPY and $QQQ is tempered robustly
against the oceanic tide that is mounting market-wide gamma squeezes. In short: downside is
still expected as the gamma foundations are projected to worsen, and with it, the market!
Moving onwards, let’s check in on the LS/T environment for ES:




I’d say those are bearish prints up-and-until the 987-minute (bottom-left), which shows LT-7
support at $6,553 (~ -3.00%!). This seems reasonable.
In addition, we can see that the gamma-hedgers are going to have minimal support by way of
confluence with other supports (e.g. liquidity) but there is some agreement in where the
resistances should lay: ~$680 on $SPY (per the gamma hedging heatmap), and $6,700 - $6,900
on ES (per LT resistances).
Quite asymmetric agreement!
Overall, downside seems most likely still with some potential for gamma-hedging to support the
markets (something to suspect if price is relatively flat/gliding up on low volume – suggesting
that there are minimal “players” in the market and hedgers are casually fulfilling their mandates,


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-11-17 to 2025-11-21
and thus, pushing spot up gradually), as VoEx is bearish (quite so) and LS/T investigations show
bearish liquidity up until the 987-minute with supports located about 3% down.
Prudency suggests bracing for continued downside, whose magnitude and duration increases
evermore.
This prudency is echoed in the composite chart of BTC vs VX1:




These data show a persistent expectation centered on two main outcomes:

    1) A large VX increase
    2) VX out-performing BTC
To that effect, the latter has already commenced since conditions became bearish and so now
the only performance left is a large VX spike!
Taken all together, this paints a picture of instability teetering on downside with downside targts
being reasonable with 7% downside measured on ES futures until LT-6 support.

Happy Trading!


Justin




1
 Quick reminder: the composite charts show the relative liquidity between the chosen symbols. So with BTC / VX,
when conditions are bullish we expect BTC to out-perform VX, while when conditions are bearish, we expect VX to
out-perform BTC.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                for the week of                   2025-11-17 to 2025-11-21
                                   Updates and Improvements!

Its no secret I’ve been hyper-focused on the TradingView side of things, and to that effect, I would
like to discuss how you, my Premium friends, are included. In short, I am going to try to maximize
your exposure to these new tools and developments until DDS is on the firm ground required to
take another stab at updating and improving the Dashboard.
I’ll start with outlining the immediate steps as well as the steps currently planned for the future!


So, for the immediacy:
    1) You are going to receive access to the Liquidity Toolkit this week. Sorry it has taken so
       long.
    2) Developing the Toolkit helped me learn lots of fun stuff about alerts and whatnot. To this
       end, I am going to be updating the Liquidity Scanner on TradingView as well to be a, well,
       scanner. The goal is for it to be the place where large swaths of alerts can be set for
       multiple equities and timeframes.
Then, on the more less-immediate term: DDS is pursuing a new dev! This dev will be like me but
better and the good news is I already have a fantastic one in mind. The ideal is that as steps (1)
& (2) from above are completed, by then the new dev will be well on their way to being caught up
with the DDS tech stack to jump in to helping get together the dashboard update, TradingView
improvements, webhooks and API for the data, and all that jazz.


In other words, this is a bit of the same from previous pushes forward at start but DDS is taking
on a different paradigm shortly thereafter (the start): getting a team together to push together.


And I think this is very exciting and long over-due!


So, keep an eye out this week for access to the Liquidity Toolkit and then I will keep you updated
on the Liquidity Scanner. I expect ~2 weeks to complete it (ideally get the prototype up this week,
then spend a few days thinking its bug free then a few days correcting said assumption then
pushing it the week following!).


Until then,
Happy Trading –
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2025-11-17 to 2025-11-21
