                                   Weekly Chat 2025-03-24


                                          Main Points



    -   VoEx-daily for $SPY and $QQQ have spiked with minimal-to-no underlying price-action;
        VoEx itself remains within the P.Z..
    -   Hedging environments show a locally supportive environment but with selling-pressure
        headwinds and diminishing purchasing support tailwinds.
    -   Put-selling shows a rapid increase in action on $SPY in the latter-half of week while
        $QQQ is demonstrating a persistent, slow growth of DLP activity.
    -   MWGS shows a rapidly decreasing growth curve, and a positive GTM.
    -   LDPM and LDPS showcase bearish liquidity throughout but with several identifiable
        “scoops” noted.
    -   Elevated risk for minor bull-trap that looks poised to resolve significantly on the
        downside.



                                          SUMMARY



          The week was largely flat, and this seems to have angered VoEx as VoEx-
          daily has begun spiking northwards on $SPY and $QQQ. This brings with
          it signals of instability and an elevated risk of a bull-run on the near-term
          time horizon but with VoEx remaining within the P.Z., the overall outlook
          is still bearish.

          The hedging environments are set to provide initial support to the market
          but there exists a headwinds of selling-pressure not far from current spot.
          This harmonizes with the prospect of a bull-run followed by downside as
          the selling pressure would send the price downwards into diminishing
          purchasing support towards gamma neutrality.

          Put-selling for $SPY and $QQQ is equivalent in performance (elevated) but
          differs in interpretation; whereas $SPY’s accumulation of DLPs is rapid
          and sudden, $QQQ’s appears to be slow and persistent. The former
          suggests near-by [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] while the latter suggests more fundamental,
          structural instability.

          LDPM/S data showcase a wholly bearish market in `free-fall` but some
          identifiable eager-bid scoops underway. The unhealthy nature of these
          scoops suggests imminent failure on testing the LDPM-L5 organic ask but
          a test of LDPM-L5 they do suggest, nonetheless. Thus, prudency suggests
          bracing for a small wave followed by movement downwards.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of               2025-03-24 to 2025-03-28
                                             DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we left-off with bearish ideations that were coated lighted with a dusting of bullish
preparation. Such expectations left us relative well-off with a flattish week that saw $SPY move
+0.21% while $QQQ mustered a substantial +0.24% week-over-week move. That exactly the
bearish performance expected but at least the bull-trap wasn’t too ferocious.
The silver-lining in these moves is that we don’t have to bust out the handy-dandy EPR-notebooks
as these values are well, well, within the expected price ranges. Thus, we can move directly to the
hedging heatmaps and check on the progress throughout the week:




It seems that for the most part, the market meandered at the boundary zone, lifted-up ever-so-
slightly by the purchasing support. It would seem last week’s Influence Distribution showcasing
the highest probability for the week ahead being ~0.00% (via the peak being near 0) wasn’t too
far off!
But, with such a stall, many have called for the advancement of the cessation of continued
downside, ultimately leading to, should said proclaimaters have their way, a reversal of price-
action. Although from prior projections, this outcome seems unlikely, given how voluminous this
chorus has become (and out of an abundance of prudency), perhaps some additional digging
should be performed to see if the bottom is in fact in, and, if so, what that means for us.

Then, let’s briefly chat about our long-time friend and foe: the hedging heatmap algorithm.
Righto!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-03-24 to 2025-03-28
Starting as usual with VoEx

We see:




VoEx Spikes! Especially on $SPY but also noticed on $QQQ. Whereas VoEx itself is remaining
well-housed within the Propagation Zone, we can see VoEx-Daily spiking rapidly northward! A
classic combination suggesting a bull-trap is underway.
A curious finding is that this VoEx Spike (which is emblematic of instability) occurred with quite
a muted week (price-action wise!). This suggests that the market is particularly sensitive to price
appreciation in an unstable manner1. Typically, such performance are heralds to upcoming bull-
runs (and eventual traps) and so an additional level of risk does indeed seem prudent.
For now, in broad strokes, current VoEx behavior seems to be reminiscent of 2025-01-01 whereby
VoEx-daily spiked, price slowly appreciated and then VoEx-daily gave way, leading to the most
recent downslide; since this occurred while VoEx itself was in the Propagation Zone, the whole
ordeal was considered a bull-trap.
It would seem a similar situation is unfolding, or at least, attempting to unfold currently.
Thus, with both appreciation (of the bull-trap variety) and depreciation (of the VoEx in the P.Z.
zone and VoEx-daily Spike variety) on the table, let’s check on the hedging environments to scout
out the potential futures ahead of us:
                                                Note:
       The hedging heatmap algorithm has undergone bug-fixes, as described below and in the
                                     upcoming patch notes.
      Thus, the heatmaps displayed here may be different from those currently (as of the time of
                    writing) displayed on the Dashboard and/or within the PDFs.




1
    A recent finding as of late!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of              2025-03-24 to 2025-03-28
 At the time of writing, the algorithms for the dashboard and the heatmaps are undergoing the
                 respective bug fixes and are set to no longer have decencies.
                                  Apologies for any inconveniences!




A supportive environment! There does seem to be some head-winds ahead by-way of a ridge of
selling pressure.

This presents the market with two opportunities to achieve gamma-neutrality: either upwards and
to the left [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] through the selling pressure or downwards and to the right [$− , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 + ] through
diminishing purchasing support.
The influence distribution for both $SPY and $QQQ favor the former, with both displaying an
elevated slightly-positive outlook for the week ahead.
Thus, to answer the question as to if the hedging heatmaps are supportive for a bull-trap or
reversion back to expected-programing (i.e.: downside), the answer seems to hinge on whether
or not the market is prepared to absorb any selling pressure; if yes, then the market seems well-
equipped with local and immediate purchasing support to catapult upwards into gamma
neutrality (and then, if I were a betting man, fall back down) but if no, then the market’s initial
contact with the selling pressure will send price hurling downwards towards gamma neutrality.

A more contentious, if not explicitly annoying, avenue of future performance also rests in the
market bouncing back and forth throughout the week between the selling pressure and
purchasing support. If so, maybe a calendar spread at or near the boundary between the two for
the week ahead? Who knows – maybe it’s time to go throw inhibition to the wind and live on the
wild sign of non-algorithmic trading.
With the stage set and consisting mainly of VoEx within the Propagation Zone (signaling expected
protracted downside) and VoEx-Daily spiking northward (signaling an unstable bull run forming)
and a hedging environment set to provide headwinds to the latter, it seems conditions are tilted
toward up-then-back-down. Let’s check in on what our put-selling friends are observing.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat               for the week of                 2025-03-24 to 2025-03-28
One must admit, this seems like a bullish expectations! On $SPY, the latter-half of the week (the
flattish part, you’ll remember) it seems there was some up-tick in put-selling on $SPY, and a
general week-long increase on $QQQ. This suggests continued expectations for profitability in
the [$+ , 𝐼𝐼𝑉𝑉 − ] directions! Of particular curiousness, is $QQQ’s behavior, which is starting to look
like a general, persistent increase in DLP behavior since around the end of January!
What strikes my attention the most with this showing of data is that, as you’ll remember from our
initial investigations into DLPs from Weekly Chat 2022-06-06, it was noted that there was a pattern
in the data such that long-term, slow accumulation of DLPs were associated with future market
                                                           downside, while short-term, rapid
                                                           accumulation was associated with
                                                           rapid appreciation. As seen below:
                                                                                        And it looks like on $QQQ this is
                                                                                        exactly what we see – long term,
                                                                                        steady accumulation of DLPs!
                                                                                        Admittedly, this is from a time before
                                                                                        I got somewhat better from graphs,
                                                                                        but the idea was simple: a steady flow
                                                                                        of dealer long puts was associated
                                                                                        with future market downturns due to
                                                                                        the inherent instability they provide2.
                                                                                        Thus, this brings some conflict into an
                                                                                        already     contentious    data-field:
                                                                                        whereas on $SPY the DLP behavior is
                                                                                        rapid, and spikey (such as would be


2 Consider an OTM DLP that starts becoming ITM. This will cause the option dealer’s delta to move to -1 (𝛿𝛿 → 1− in nerd speak) and so the option

dealer will be forced to initially purchase shares (as the 𝛿𝛿 < 0 → 1− this means more negative delta which means more equity-delta needed to
achieve neutrality!). But! As those DLPs rapidly unwind as they approach ITM, the 𝛿𝛿 < 0 that has been accumulated needs to be rapidly
unwound. This causes aggressive de-leveraging and rapid selling into the market. Additional, and to a lesser-known degree, the long-accumulation
(and profitability) of DLPs has a similar effect as the puts decay; whereas DSPs decay and provoke a steady stream of long equity into the market,
DSPs decay and provide a steady stream of short equity into the market! Thus, consider the situation wherein you have persistent put-selling
which is already in a “decay cycle” and moving short equity into the market, and then the market experiences a downside, the DLPs work to
absorb some of the ask (by way of promoting dealer purchasing) but if at some point the collective zeitgeist is such that the DLPs need to be
rapidly closed, all of this “potential energy” is suddenly released into the market, at presumably, a bad time!



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                               for the week of                            2025-03-24 to 2025-03-28
expected for a turn-of-events), $QQQ’s DLP behavior is slow and steady (such as would be expect
to precede a market correction!).
Perhaps Monday’s DLP performance will be most noteworthy: should $SPY’s behavior move to
zero, then we can side with $QQQ’s outlook quite confidently; and if it doesn’t, well, not everything
in life is easy!


                                                                     Moving onwards and upwards, the
                                                                     Market-Wide       Gamma        Squeeze
                                                                     (MWGS) data presents with us a
                                                                     curious showing. The recent stalling
                                                                     in price action has seen a rapid loss of
                                                                     growth rate (top graph, blue line),
                                                                     while gamma squeezes have
                                                                     decreased 20% in the last 10-trading
                                                                     days.
                                                                     During this time, we can also see GTM
                                                                     has risen rapidly into long territory,
                                                                     suggesting the flow of gamma
                                                                     heading towards the market is
                                                                     robustly long.
                                                                     I don’t like this. For no real reason
                                                                     other than hand-wavy ones3.
                                                                     But, in being empirical, one must
                                                                     acknowledge         the       apparent
                                                                     bullishness of the data; decreasing GS
                                                                     counts and an increasingly positive
                                                                     GTM that suggests continued
                                                                     degradation of gamma squeezes, and
                                                                     thus, bullish market performance.


However, as I mentioned previously, something about this feels off. So, I did some tinkering! The
net result is likely an upcoming upgrade to the MWGS data, namely the top-most graph. Instead
of just displaying nominal data, I decide to work-up a quick algorithm to help contextualize and
capture the meaningful changes in the data.
I will likely work on this over the next week or so, but so far, things look good! Have a peek:




3
 I’ve been somewhat longfull for a chance to improve the MWGS data, in particular the top graph. I find the data
to be helpful but with time, inspiration has fostered some ideas for improvements!


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                  for the week of                   2025-03-24 to 2025-03-28
Besides the colors, the differences are:
   -   Whereas the initial growth curve was essentially just monitoring the actual change in
       gamma squeeze counts, the new algorithm, the `Predictive Count Algorithm` takes these
       same data but runs them through a somewhat ad hoc unsupervised learning algorithm
       and voila! Instead of just looking at the growth we get a pretty decently predictive growth
       curve! This means the line tells us both the relative amount of gamma squeezes (you’ll
       note the general shape of the green line is the same as the regular GS count graph) but it
       also is telling us (or attempting to tell us) where the growth looks like it is headed!

       So, whereas in the original graph, the growth curve is pointed distinctly in the negative
       direction, we can see with the new system, this recent decrease in gamma squeezes
       hasn’t affected the expected future behavior! The green line is still pointed up -admittedly
       less so than perhaps the younger version- but up, nonetheless.

   -   Another difference is the brown line, or the `Predictive Growth Algorithm` – this is an
       attempt to mirror the GTM data but from a different angle (namely, not the GTM
       algorithm). Although not exactly the same, a reasonable analogy to this curve is an
       “acceleration” curve. When the line is above zero, it indicates that the growth is
       accelerating in the positive direction (hitting the gas on the growth momentum) and when
       it is below zero, it indicates that growth is decelerating (applying the breaks to the growth
       momentum).
There’s still some work to do but I think it’s a good first start to improving our view of gamma
squeezes.
So far, things are quite messy. VoEx-proper suggests continued downside as both $SPY and
$QQQ’s VoExes are residing deep within the Propagation Zone, but in the near-term, VoEx-daily’s


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of             2025-03-24 to 2025-03-28
spiking (with very minimal price action) suggests brewing instability, of which the classic
expectation is a bull-trap performance.
In searching the local environment to see which outcome may be more favored by the forces-
that-be, we find a locally supportive environment for bullish performance, but this purchasing is
poised to give way to a field of selling pressure, and the purchasing support in the down-direction
finds itself wearing a tad thin as it approaches gamma neutrality. If one were looking for an
environment supportive of an up-then-back-down future, this would seem like a fortuitous
configuration!
Then, in turning to the put-sellers, we find a spike of DLP activity on $SPY (that may or may not
be in the process of cessating) which provides a near-term bullish outlook, while on $QQQ, the
data show a progressively increasing rate of DLP activity, which is known to provide substantial
instability in the presence of a market “shock”.
In seeking reprieve, we find the MWGS data showing largely the same: a reduction in GS “activity”
suggesting a near term reprieve but the overall growths are still positive, suggesting a more long-
term bearish expectation.
Moving onwards for clarity, let’s take a peek at LDPM/LDPS for clues. First up is $SPX on the
weekly timeframe with LDPS on `Balanced` (note, this is the LDPM/S updated algorithms).




This view shows price “clinging” to LDPM-5 but with bearish liquidity. This suggests degradation
of the “cling” will result in movement to LDPM-6 at $5,350-ish (-5.00%!). The irksome part is that
this view alone can’t tell us for how long the cling is likely to cling.
Searching for cracks in the suction, we can `zoom in` some, where we arrive at the 987-minute
for $SPX which showcases a recent test of LDPM-987 [pink line] resulting in a bounce:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-03-24 to 2025-03-28
The support providing by the organic bid at LDPM-L1 seems to have little follow through as there
are minimal eager-bids working to move under spot, and liquidity remains bearish. This minimizes
the chances for a bull run but it does set a ceiling for us, should it occur: where-ever LDPM-L5 is!
Switching views laterally, we arrive at ES futures on the 987-minute, as seen below:




This shows a migration supported by an eager-bid scoop upwards towards LDPM-L5. Ordinarily
this would suggest continued upwards movement as the eager bids work to “test” the organic




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2025-03-24 to 2025-03-28
ask at LDPM-5 but one might well notice there’s a kink in the scoop’s armor! Namely, the scoop
broke!
You’ll remember from Weekly Chat 2024-07-29, not all scoops are equal!




The top panel shows the morphology of a failed scoop, namely that of poorly defined boundaries,
and non-robust eager parties (rapid switching from eager bid to eager ask at the slightest
downturn; look at LDPM-13’s behavior on the top graph), and multiple failed LDPM-scoop
boundaries (not the price `ignoring` LDPM-13, -21, and -34 at various points).

Compared with the morphology of a successful scoop, on the bottom panel, which shows very
distinct and “directed” movements, the eager parts `hold their line` as the price tests them;
ultimately leading to a `merging` of sorts of the eager bid back into an organic bid to support
continued bullish movements.
If we compare these examples with the current ES scoop, it appears to be more of the former
than the latter: the eager bids are erratic, loosely defined, and there have already been several
episodes of rapid conversion from eager bid to eager ask. This suggests that any upcoming tests
of an organic ask will likely fail.
So – by and large, it seems through some preponderance of the data, it looks as though there is
fertile ground for a bull-trap to raise the market somewhat, but there is currently minimal data to
suggest that this performance would be supported in the long-term.
Thus, for now, acknowledgement of the current potential for movement upside, but the data still
suggest downside is most likely overall. This means the chorus will have to be ignored for a tad
longer as perhaps not all screaming is singing.
Happy Trading!
Justin


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2025-03-24 to 2025-03-28
Pesky algorithms doing pesky things
There has been an invasion of the swiss within DDS’ systems. Yes, that’s right. Swiss cheese.
The heatmaps for a while now have differed slightly in their algorithms due to various computing
restraints but by-and-large the differences produced were negligible. This, however, has begun to
change as the market has become more turbulent! This is, of course, precisely when one does
not want their data streams to start differing.

Long story short, there were several small issues with the cross-performance of these two
algorithms that were, at various and differing times, provoking different pathways of computation,
and ultimately, leading to different outlooks.
These issues were multi-faceted and difficult to pin down and as such, there is no “correct”
version of the heatmaps, as there are times when it was the PDF’s heatmap algorithm that spun
out of control and at times it was the Dashboards.
The good news is, however, I have found all of the loose wires! I am in the process of incorporating
the changes throughout the system and am planning on getting a patch through before Monday’s
processing; however, admittedly, I will be watching Monday’s processing for any issues so there
may be a small chance of a delay in case I’m not thorough enough in my preparations.
I apologize for the inconvenience!

Another silver lining here is that the updated dashboard will have an entirely new system where
these types of issues will no longer be of issue; only different, newer type of issues to have issue
with.
Also – there is an upcoming critical update for LTA, with the following proposed changes:

   -     Algorithmic upgrades,
   -     Ability to enter/exit position within the same “cycle” without having a built-in pause.
   -     General fixes (typos, spelling, etc.).

If there is anything you would like to see fixed / improved explicitly, let me know and I’ll see what
I can do.
I am planning on having this update done for next weekend, so by Friday 28th, March 2025. I will
also use this opportunity to switch everyone over to the new T.V. script anyways.
After all that, we’ll talk about the latest updates and moves towards the new dashboard!


Happy Trading (again and evermore)
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2025-03-24 to 2025-03-28
