                                  Weekly Chat 07/08/2024


                                         Main Points


    -   VoEx is bullish-until-proven-otherwise.
    -   Hedging environments present with local and diffuse purchasing support.
    -   Put selling has appeared.
    -   Bullish ideologies until proven otherwise.
    -

                                          SUMMARY



          The near-term dip seems to have dipped and conditions appear to be back
          to bullish.

          VoEx has resumed its position in stability and put-selling has ramped up
          on $SPY, with some activity noted on $QQQ.

          Hedging environments are stable and provide reasonable purchasing
          support throughout; no resistance noted to appreciation.

          Overall, bullish ideologies continue until proven otherwise.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    07/08/2024
                                              DETAILS




Hello, my friends, and happy belated 4th of July.

Last week, expectations were low and bearish. This, as we see, was unfounded.
Whereas last week there was doubt in the hedging environment’s ability to keep things aloft, but
so it was not - as we can see below:




As IV dropped and conditions moved left-wards, it would appear the purchasing wall present on
$QQQ did quite the job of pushing the price upwards.
In relative-IV terms, $SPY moved 1.9x what them was expecting, whereas $QQQ moved 3.5x – so
the purchasing support definitely worked to do something.
Thus, since our expectations have been proven false, let us look to ensure that there are no more
sneaky data points suggesting that moving back to a BUPO (of the bullish variety) is not the best
move.

First up, we see VoEx (we’ll stick to neo-VoEx for the Weekly Chats for now)




We have avoided plunging into the Propagation Zone (other than the super-quick dip on $QQQ)
and so thing have returned to stability. One may be inclined to draw some kind of channel on
VoEx’s current behavior – but I’ll leave said exercise and subsequent interpretations to the reader.
For us, however, the skies are clear; both VoEx-daily and VoEx are within stability, and lest that
change, things appear to be moving upwards.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         07/08/2024
So, how is the gamma hedging environment poised to handle such an outcome? Let’s find out:




Very good! We have local and robust purchasing support and both influence distributions suggest
things are underpricing bullish movement. This is exciting for the bulls, I would imagine.
So, without looking a gift horse too far into the mouth, let’s check out put-selling friends to see
what they are up to.




Well – that’s activity! Moreso on $SPY, where we can see spirits have been lifted quite high, but
on $QQQ we can see some activity as well.
This is, bullish!


So, let’s not look a gift horse too close in the mouth and just keep an eye out for any VoEx dipping
into the Propagation Zone.


Otherwise – clear bullish skies seem to be ahead!


Happy Trading,


Justin

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         07/08/2024
