                                 Weekly Chat 02/20/2024


                                       Main Points


          -   VoEx on $SPY and $QQQ are in Bullish-Until-Proven-Otherwise configuration
              with VoEx Divergence forming.
          -   Put-selling on $SPY and $QQQ has ceased.
          -   The Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data show weekly and monthly
              net-closures and a positive GTM.
          -   Hedging Environments remain in a vanna-unstable configuration for $SPY and
              $QQQ.




                                        SUMMARY



          VoEx remains in BUPO (of the Bullish variety) on $SPY and $QQQ; on
          close inspection, however, it would appear that both have formed
          Divergence, with $QQQ’s VoEx-trend nearing the Inhibition Zone.

          Put-selling has ceased on $SPY and $QQQ, particularly interesting given
          the long-weekend. This suggests that there is little confidence in future
          profitability that is dependent on $+ or IV- (or both).

          MWGS data show decreasing GS amounts with an erratically positive
          GTM print. Another quick investigation into these large GTM prints adds
          additional evidence that these are associated with future market
          downturn over the course of 40-trading days.

          BUPO (of the Bullish variety) suggests bullish outlooks for the week
          ahead, however, prudency suggests more caution than usual, as there
          are several signs that suggest this bullish performance is nearing its
          relative end.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    02/20/2024
                                           DETAILS




Hello everyone, and welcome back!
Last week, we left off with bullish inclinations for the week a head, which, kind of panned out …
maybe? Eh – not really.
The week started off with the markets moving lower only to rebound in the latter half of the
week. $SPY experienced an exciting first-half with a 1.42% drawdown, only to recover 1.11% by
week’s-end, leaving $SPY with a net -0.34% move. $QQQ fared much the same but overall worse
with an early-week drawdown of 1.94%, only to be followed by a 1.37% recovery leading into
Friday, with the week ultimately ending in a net move for $QQQ of -1.48%.
These moves can be visualized below, as usual, with the Gamma Hedging Heatmaps:




Noticeable observation is that no large IV fluctuations were noted with these price movements,
despite the larger downside experienced at the start of the week. Another observation is that
this week, on Tuesday specifically, at the week’s most significant drawdown, no spontaneous
purchasing support genesis was noted within the hedging environments!
Does this mean anything?
Who knows – perhaps we’ll try to crack that nut this in this Weekly Chat.
Perhaps not.
You’ll have to find out.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      02/20/2024
If you stay finding out you don’t got to get finding out
Starting as usual with VoEx, let’s see how things are brewing:




VoEx on $SPY remains within BUPO (of the Bullish Variety), but if one were to enhance, then one
might be predisposed to noting a potential VoEx Divergence forming on $SPY.
Two-fold is the benefit of moving on from $SPY towards $QQQ: the first fold is that enhancing
to observe divergence is no longer necessary, and the second is the augmented confidences
one could infer from $QQQ’s VoEx divergence.




$QQQ is indeed (and, once again) demonstrating VoEx Divergence, with VoEx-daily already
teasing the Inhibition Zone. Overall, this removes us slightly away from BUPO (of the Bullish

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                     02/20/2024
variety) as it serves as a keen reminder of the two main ways that BUPO (of any variety) ends:
either VoEx Spikes, or VoEx Divergence (or VoEx Coiling, in the BUPO [of the Propagation Zone
variety]).
This moves the overall interpretation of VoEx from a carefree bullish to a worrisome bullish.
Hopefully, the remaining data shall alleviate this newfound worry.

To seek relief, let’s move directly towards the
Gamma Hedging Heatmaps, where the view
remains much the same (right).
With no purchasing support located in the $-/IV+
quadrant, and no purchasing support local in the
local vicinity, $SPY and $QQQ once-more find
themselves in a vanna-unstable orientation with the
only available move towards gamma-neutrality
extending in the $+/IV- direction; or in other words,
quite the precarious position.
This, as we have seen, is an orientation that isn’t
bearish outright, but one that will not provide any
bullish assistance in the event of a $-/IV+ week.
Moving from the Hedging Environments to those
that literally make the hedging environments, our
Financial Overlords, we see a long-awaited answer
to our inquiry last week wherein it was debated if
the $SPY put-sellers would re-unite with the $QQQ
put-sellers or would the $QQQ put-sellers recognize
their folly and re-unite with the $SPY put-sellers?
The answer:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                    02/20/2024
Capitulatio reperit infirmos – and so it would seem that the $SPY put-sellers may have realized
that their foray into put-selling-land was mis-timed, as the put-selling activity on $SPY has
reduced to near-zero, while the activity on $QQQ has reduced to below-zero.
This is a bearish print for the week ahead; there is no more concern for scrutinizing if the put-
selling behavior is “reminiscent of the jubililious jubilee-ing of yester-year”, as the message is
quite clear: there is little-to-no reason to expect profitability from $+/IV- in the week(s) ahead.
It should be noted, that the week ahead is a short week – which means that put-sellers have left
quite a good amount of theta decay on the table rather than have the exposure for the weekend
ahead.
Moving from the put-sellers to who-put-all-these-gamma-squeezes-here, we see that, oh wait –
what’s that?




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        02/20/2024
    The new GTM on the Macro Report1? Why, yes. Yes, it is.

                                                       Reminder!
The old and new GTMs are relatively the same except they are flipped.
When this version prints positive values, it means that it is detecting long (positive) gamma “flowing
towards” the market, and as such, the expectation is that gamma squeezes will start diminishing over the
next 20 trading days. This is a bullish expectation.
The opposite is true for when GTM prints negative values. This means that the algorithm is detecting short
(negative) gamma flowing towards the market, which suggests an increase in the number of gamma
squeezes should be expected. This is a bearish expectation.


    And so, over the past month we have seen a persistently positive GTM along with a decrease in
    the number of gamma squeezes from the monthly average of 11%, and a decrease from the
    past two trading-weeks of 17%.
    Despite these changes being prima facia bullish, I can’t help but reminisce about our discussion
    regarding large GTM prints. In Weekly Chat 2024-01-19, there was discussion about how these
    large positive movements were correlated with future downside. Is this still the case? Should we
    be concerned about this large print?
    The answer to that is … frankly: I am not sure!

    Depending on how you look at the data, determines which answer you get. And this, my friends,
    is not how it is supposed to work. Typically, this suggests there might be something hiding in
    the data, and the relative good news, is that if it can be found, I think it might serve quite useful.
    Even so, I do think there’ still merit in simply look at the basic relationship between these large
    GTM prints and future price changes on $SPY.
    So, let’s do that:




    1
        (Don’t worry about the legend misplacement.)

    Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           02/20/2024
This graph shows the average future daily change in $SPY’s price over the next 40-days with
coloring based off of if the GTM-ema (gold band) was Bearish or Bullish and the location (x-
axis) being the GTM-5. Big positive spikes in GTM would occur on the right, while negative ones
would occur on the left.
We see that over on the right, we have identified the zone in which we exist (please do not
disturb), and we see that some large GTM-5 movement is just off to our left (which we have
surpassed currently) shows both positive and negative future performance (the dots are both
above and below the red dashed line).

This suggests that it might be a bit of a mixed bag until the data can be parsed out some more,
which, based on how the data are laying out, should be in the future.
So, the take home? I think a few definitive things about GTM can be said:

   1- This large, positive movement is the most large and positive movement recorded per
      GTM,
   2- The most recent large print has been met with a GS reduction throughout the market,
      suggesting that even if this is an “anomalous” print, it still seems to have impact on the
      gamma flows to some regard, and
   3- These large GTM prints are associated with both future positive and negative returns
      over the next 2-months (40 trading days).

So, for now, let’s monitor it. Point (2) suggests we can keep watching GTM for any updates
without having to worry about missing out on any of the finer details; all-the-while I look to
expand upon the finer details.
Thus, overall, it would appear that per VoEx we are technically in BUPO (of the Bullish variety),
but the VoEx Divergence, and DLP-selling cessation give serious pause to said’s longevity and


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      02/20/2024
suggests that although an overtly bearish outlook may not be prudent just yet, it would appear
the durability of the hitherto persistent Bullish outlook is being tested.
As the week progresses, I’ll be keeping an eye out on DLP behavior (to make sure it doesn’t
skyrocket back up) as well as monitoring VoEx to see if Divergence leads to a VoEx spike into
the PZ. To a lesser degree, I’ll keep an eye on GTM to see if it suddenly switches course and
starts noting negative gamma flowing into the market, which is more in-line with out prior
expectations.
Until then, I’ll probably sit back and slowly start taking some long-gains home and preparing for
a potential downturn in the market in the near-term future.


Happy Trading,
Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                      02/20/2024
