                                   Weekly Chat 2025-12-29


                                         Main Points



       -   VoEx-Daily resides within Stability, while VoEx for $SPY exits the Propagation
           Zone unlike $QQQ’s VoEx.
       -   Hedging environment shows local support with near-by spot-up selling pressure.
       -   LS&T analysis showcases modest bullish liquidity with near-by, spot-up organic
           asks and eager asks.
       -   Overall, a short-week ahead likely to generate flat-to-slightly up price action to
           usher in the year ahead.

                                         SUMMARY


           See above!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat          for the week of               2025-12-29 to 2025-01-02
                                              DETAILS




Hello all!
Last week, we held out hopes for a gentle rise northward as Santa climbed southward to deliver
a northeasternly breeze helping usher spot up and to the left. This seems to have occurred, with
$SPY moving 1.43% and $QQQ moving 1.11%! Not too shabby.
We can view the gentle migration northward in the heat maps below:


This week, the goal is straightforward: will the Santa rally have long-lasting effects? Or will
downside resume as expected? Let’s try to find out!
Santa’s Shadow
Starting as usual with VoEx, we find:




For now, it seems that Santa’s Shadow lengthens into our futures: VoEx-daily on $SPY and $QQQ
remain within the Stable Zone (although one might take pause as to the Spike-like nature of these
VoEx-daily excursions). To bolster this view is $SPY’s VoEx, which finds itself leaving the
Propagation Zone (a feature not shared from within $QQQ). Taken all together, this paints a
picture of decision: VoEx overall is still suggesting that most upside will be unstable (by-way of
VoEx largely being excluded from stability and VoEx-daily’s spike-like behavior) but said
suggestion is provided with an increasingly reasonable tone.
The take-away here is either a week that is flat-to-slightly up or one in which the VoEx-daily spikes
complete their cycle, and downside is expected. To help settle the debate, let’s check in on the
gamma-hedging heatmaps to settle the debate:



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2025-12-29 to 2025-01-02
Much like last week! Both $SPY and $QQQ showcase persistent and diffuse purchasing support
located throughout. This gives visions of another week of gentle appreciation (in particular also
because of the short week, as we discussed last week).
Let’s check in with the LS&T for the week ahead to see which way the liquidity-cards lay:




Overall, it appears there’s reasonable selling occurring on the 90- and 144-minutes with a 987-
minute organic ask resistance to note. This highlights the idea of a flat-to-slightly-up week ahead.
It is worth noting the eager ask that is now persistent on the weekly (LT3). This corresponds
reasonably well to the LT6 of the 987-minute ceiling and so it seems reasonable to expect that to
act as a resistance to any substantial price wriggling.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-12-29 to 2025-01-02
Overall, in efforts to keep the Weekly Chat short for the short week ahead, it seems that a flat-to-
slightly-up week ahead is forming; due to much of the same conditions as last week: local and
persistent purchasing support from the gamma-hedgers, VoEx that is sort-of-leaning bullish but
not committing, and LS&T showcasing predominately bullish liquidity with a reasonable number
of eager asks poking their heads up.
Next week, we’ll talk about the webserver and API end points!


Happy trading,


Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-12-29 to 2025-01-02
