                                      Weekly Chat 2026-01-12


                                             Main Points



       -   VoEx-daily for $SPY has been steadily decreasing towards the PZ while VoEx has
           paused at the boundary out of the PZ. $QQQ’s VoEx remains in PZ while its VoEx-
           daily also decreases.
       -   Gamma-hedging environments showcase robust selling and purchasing support
           where it would be expected but with $SPY being surrounded by a thin blanket of
           selling pressure.
       -   LS&T show bullish liquidity with encroaching profit-takers on the 90-, 144-, and
           weekly views. Reasonable support located spot-down despite these findings.
       -   The predictive MWGS data show things have cooled down and outlooks no longer
           paint a future of increasing gamma squeezes.
       -   Overall, the conditions look bullish but said rigor is brought into question on
           holistic view of trends.

                                             SUMMARY


           This week, we investigated volume and found that $SPY and $QQQ have
           abnormally low volumes in comparison to several slices of the past. One of the
           potential expectations from a low-volume market is the relative increase in the
           effect hedging has on price movement.

           VoEx for $SPY finds itself paused at the exit to the Propagation Zone, while VoEx-
           daily is continuing its steady decline to the PZ. $QQQ is reminiscent but VoEx
           remains in the PZ.

           Hedging environments showcase purchasing support located spot-up and selling
           pressure located spot-down in steady and persistent amounts. $SPY has a thin
           layer of selling pressure to start the week.

           LS&T investigation showcases bullish LS prints but LT indicates mounting profit-
           taking on the 90-, 144-, and the 1-Week views. This echoes the notion of a bump
           start to the week.

           Overall, the data are technically bullish but one can’t help but notice some
           worrying patterns – likely either drift-and-flat, or downside starts!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                  2026-01-12 to 2026-01-16
                                              DETAILS




Hello every-body!
Last week, we left off with net bullish thoughts as the storm clouds appear to be receding, and
recede they did, as $SPY moved +1.6% while $QQQ moved 2.21%! Quite the moves indeed – we
can visualize them below in the gamma hedging heatmaps:




Surprisingly, despite $SPY’s (apparent) larger quantity of purchasing support, $QQQ appears to
have received a greater benefit from its less-opaque purchasing support! With such a difference
in performance, and with its connection to the heatmaps (as we can see above), I thought it’d be
worthwhile to check in on our volume idea that lower volume tends to infer larger hedging
influence. The idea here is: if such a difference in the hedging impact is seen, could it be explained
by any changes in the volume behavior between the two?
 To do this, and things got curious! Below is a table of the running standard-deviations over 5
different lookbacks (20-, 40-, 60-, 120-, and 252-(trading) days) for $SPY and $QQQ for volume
smoothed for 1 week (5-days). The values represents the relative performance over those periods
as well as their probability. Negative values indicate the volume is less than average and positive
indicate more than average,
and the distance from zero                          $SPY Z-Score               $QQQ
represents       the     relative                   (Probability)              (Probability)
likelihood of this distance (the
further from zero, the less 20-Days                        -0.619 (27%)            -1.299 (11%)
likely). Doing this gives us the
                                    40-Days                -0.744 (23%)             -1.372 (9%)
table:
Some curious trends! The first 60-Days                     -0.954 (17%)            -1.099 (14%)
is that almost all of the values   120-Days                   3.222 (1%)              0.381 (36%)
are negative. This means that
if we compare this week’s          252-Days                  -0.543 (29%)            -0.803 (20%)
volume to all of the other



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of                  2026-01-12 to 2026-01-16
weeks’ week-end (Friday)’s volume, the current volume is far below expectations. For instance,
let’s translate the data into words:
        -   For $SPY, if you calculated the probability of the 5-day rolling average of volume on
            Friday Volume (measured on Friday) being what it was, it would tell you: 27%. If you
            did this for $QQQ, it would show 11%.

So that means both $SPY and $QQQ beat the odds by quite a bit ! And since the values are
negative, this means they beat the odds by extraordinarily low volume. So it turns out our hunches
about the holidays and hedging might have been somewhat founded!
To continue some of the observations, we could say:
        -   For $QQQ, if you calculated the probability of the 5-day rolling average of volume on
            last Friday being what it was, it would say 9%.

This means there was, per the numbers, only a 9% likelihood of having volume as low as it was
on Friday, when calculated over the past 2-months.

These are quite unusual and low values! You’d normally expect, in a relatively “average” market
that these values would be much closer to 0 and be more diverse in their positive or negativity;
but here: we see a general trend of being both negative and quite negative to boot.
Going back to our original idea, it seems that our hunch was correct once again! Despite the
minimal amount of purchasing support (relative to $SPY), we can see that the overall volume was
particularly low – both objectively and in comparison to $SPY’s. Low volume → minimal market
participants → greater relative influence has on price action → less “raw” purchasing support
required to move spot up!
This is quite validating !
What does it mean? We shall try to find out – but for now, let’s keep our feet in ground and remind
ourselves of our goals this week: should we expect a continued bounce? If so, how much bounce
is a no longer a bounce anymore, and if not, where should we expect to land ?
Let’s get started!
With VoEx as usual, we have:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of               2026-01-12 to 2026-01-16
On the whole, we have VoEx residing yet in the Propagation Zone for $QQQ and on $SPY, VoEx
is refusing to coӧperate further with demands, and has paused at border-control. The take
home: very nerve wracking for the bulls, much less so for the bears, and so it would seem a
bearish take wins out in favor of prudence.
To add to the gaїety of the bears, we can see VoEx-daily experience quite the drill-down into the
Propagation Zone on $SPY (almost reminiscent of a VoEx Divergence pattern!) while VoEx-daily
on $QQQ appears in-kind yet slightly more unstable in its descent. These are both unusual and
bearish.

Thus, the take-home from VoEx: downside is still likely and perhaps closer than it was
previously.
Moving onwards to the hedging heatmaps, let’s check out what influences might float our ways
this week:




Shifted!
We have the same general set up (with $QQQ joining) as last week: profound purchasing support
located spot-down and steady selling pressure located spot-up, but unlike last week, $SPY has
lost its bullish encirclement and has replaced it with a thin layer of selling pressure. The suggests
the market is likely going to open with a bit of a downwards jolt (per $SPY) with relative “safety”
on $QQQ, given its slightly more progressive purchasing support.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of                2026-01-12 to 2026-01-16
Overall, however, it does paint a market that is poised to receiving some hefty head-winds, those
of which might be stronger than usual should the recent trend of unusually low volumes continue.
This produces an interesting potential:

Suppose the market opens to exaggerated downside due to a greater-than-usual hedging
influence on spot, only to bring more volume into the market, thereby potentially reducing the
relative strength of ongoing hedging.
If so, this increase in volume would offset the increase in “relative” purchase support from the
hedgers! Thus, let’s hope the market participants who enter are bid!
To gauge this, let’s quickly step over some toes and proceed with LS&T to see if we can identity
nearby bids or asks that might step in and assist:




Here we see there is quite a bit of eager ask that is encroaching on current spot! This is worrisome
indeed.
On the 90-minute [top-left], we can see bullish liquidity (LS is telling us this is largely spurred by
an eager bid; we can see an awkward aggressive bid cascade-like complex just after the 9th)
along with an increase in the presence of profit-taking (lower-order LTs are rising rapidly above
spot). This suggests that those waiting to enter the market on the near-term are likely sellers.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2026-01-12 to 2026-01-16
We have a very similar set up, just not as progressed, on the 144-minute: just after the 9th we see
the aggressive bid (much more refined, this one) which helped spot bump up slightly. Now,
however, we see the encroaching cascade of eager bids working their way up.
The 987-minute [bottom-left] is curious because we can see the remnants of the aggressive bid
but here its obvious where and why the price was halted: the organic ask at LT5 looks quite robust
– and has kept a lid on things since around December ! For the bulls, this is another, slightly
unnerving, finding: all this aggressive bid only to be halted at the door!




[Same graph, just for ease].
On the 1-Week, we see LT5 continuing its support while LT3 shows persistence above spot –
suggesting there is quite reasonable (and persistent!) profit-taking going on a relatively high-level.
The name of the game, then, is simply: how long will LT5 last and will it be longer than the profit-
takers?
Overall, this paints more near-term turbulence as LS&T shows encroaching profit-takers and
hedging suggests that the best thing for the market is another week of minimal volume and some
bouncing between purchasing support and selling pressure. The introduction of volume, in either
direction, will diminish hedging’s recent relative supremacy and should this occur in combination
with a predominance of ask-volume, the market may be quite bereft of its structural supports.
Speaking of structural supports, let’s check on the gamma squeeze data:



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2026-01-12 to 2026-01-16
The market saw a net decrease in counts this week (back down to the 600s) [not shown] and
growth is negative.
In turning to the predictive data:




It seems outlooks have settled down slightly as both outlooks show a cooling off is expected:
both the predictive count and growth curves are back to baseline.
This suggests that the options environment isn’t detecting any tremors!
Overall, the data appear rocky at best with a high risk for downside. Spot is near several levels of
support on larger timeframes which may come into use in the near future.

Overall, the data are currently saying “likely flat-to-up” but with a bit of a smirk.


Happy trading,



Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat              for the week of                2026-01-12 to 2026-01-16
