                                  Weekly Chat 05/15/2023


                                         Main Points


    -   Data prints demonstrate bearish outlooks,
    -   $QQQ’s VoEx has risen higher into the I.Z. but has not experienced a VoEx Spike or
        Divergence back into the PZ.



                                          SUMMARY


           Last week, we had bearish leanings, and with some good graces, $SPY
           moved -0.25%.

           This week, the data are much the same and mostly unimproved.

           $SPY’s VoEx (particularly VoEx-Trend) seem southward bound while
           $QQQ’s VoEx has risen higher into the IZ.

           The hedging environments show selling pressure $-/IV+, and both of their
           influence distributions have negative outlooks for the week ahead.

           MWGSC is creeping back up again, along with a slightly-greater-than-zero
           growth in GS; GTM is printing negative (bullish) values for now.

           DLP behavior is not reminiscent of bullish expectations for the week
           ahead, and the 10-day growth rate of DLPs is near-zero.

           Overall, a slight chance for bullish performance (via the right-tail on the
           hedging environments as well as $QQQ’s VoEx) but the data seem
           predominately bearish-leaning.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       05/15/2023
                                           DETAILS




Hello all!
Some weeks are delightfully boring, and others are dreadfully boring – which of the two
did the week bring to you?
Last week, we left off with the idea that downside is likely due to a variety of reasons, and
with $SPY down -0.25%, we can see that we hit the nail on the head ... right?
In any case, this week we will go over the new data, and then finally talk about the new
dashboard in more concrete terms.
Calm seas beget anxious sailors
We can visualize the monolithic movements of last week with $SPY’s heatmap:




If moving all around the heatmap keeping track of $SPY’s movements is making you
dizzy, I don’t blame you.
Since this is a pretty boring heatmap, let’s look at a slightly more interesting heatmap by
mapping out the highs and lows throughout the week:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   05/15/2023
With the early part of the week quickly
diving into selling, it seems that
Wednesday’s sudden decrease in IV
helped bring $SPY out of the selling
pressure and closer to gamma
neutrality.
You have to love when IV does that.




In keeping with the hedging environments, we see a similar set-up for $SPY this week. We
have some decent selling pressure all throughout our current location, and selling
                                                   pressure located $-/IV+.
                                                   In this regard, should we consider
                                                   last week to be a common example
                                                   of these set ups, it will be important
                                                   to monitor IV throughout the week –
                                                   a diminishing IV puts us closer to
                                                   gamma neutrality, whereas an
                                                   increase in IV pushes us closer to
                                                   selling pressure; regardless of what
                                                   the price is doing.
                                                   It is worth mentioning that the
                                                   influence distribution is printing a
bearish print for the week ahead.
We see a similar hedging
environment      with    $QQQ:
influence distribution suggests
bearish returns; profuse selling
pressure located throughout.
These bring with it bearish/flat
sentiments for the week ahead.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                               05/15/2023
Moving towards VoEx, we see that $SPY’s seems to have started its downward trajectory:




Although we are still inside of stability, one cannot help but notice that VoEx trend is
mostly still on track for the normal “cycle”; that is, it is headed towards the P.Z., despite
VoEx-daily’s quick diversions last week.
Does this suggest that the normal “cycle” of the market is still in effect? That is, should
we expect some near-term downside while the overall long-term movement of the market
is upwards?
$QQQ’s VoEx suggests that this may not be the case:




With VoEx rising ever higher into the Inhibition Zone, without a definitive move downwards
(such as a spike) or a migration lower (such as VoEx divergence), $QQQ’s view offers us
a bullish outlook.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                   05/15/2023
Would I hang my hat on $QQQ’s outlook? Not particularly. Even with a few green days
ahead, I think $QQQ is mostly expressing that appreciation right now is provoking
instability; and we all know how that usually ends (down).
From VoEx, then, it seems less a matter of “is near-term downside expected” but more
“when is this near-term downside expected”?
Had $QQQ’s VoEx started moving south (as $SPY’s), I think the answer would be “soon”;
however, with $QQQ being
obstinate as usual, this
muddies       the    timing
somewhat as once VoEx is
in the IZ it can be hard to
predict when the instability
will surface.
Zooming out to ExVoEx
(Extended VoEx 1), we see
that the ambiguity between
$SPY and $QQQ diminishes
somewhat. $QQQ’s ExVoEx
is very reminiscent of local
peaks and $SPY’s already
seems to have started its
decent.
Thus, its seems reasonable
that VoEx is suggesting
downside is likely.
In keeping with more macro
views, we see that those-
who-shant-be-named-but-
we-talk-about-all-the-time-
beause-they-always-sell-
puts have continued their
less-than-zealous peddling:




1
 Extended VoEx incorporates an extended data set! It can help us get a much more macro-, or long-term view of
the markets.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                   05/15/2023
With near-zero 10-day growth in DLPs, it would seem that those-that-shant-… (you get the
jist) are not too keen on betting for $+ or IV-.
We can pile this in the “bearish data print” pile.
Our last macro view for this week is the
MWGSC and GTM, which offer
somewhat of a conflicting views again.
We have been experiencing a mostly-
flat MWGSC change over the past
month!
The 5-day growth (gold line, top graph),
is peeking positive again suggesting
that the current rate of gamma
squeeze formation is becoming positive
again, but GTM is still printing negative
values (suggesting future gamma
squeeze counts will be lower than
current values).
The most-recent data print for GTM
shows a slight upwards trajectory – so
perhaps GTM will not be bullish for long.
So – what does all this mean? To
summarize my main thoughts:
   -   I think downside is likely still,
   -   There appears to be a small
       chance of “upside instability” as
       described by $QQQ’s VoEx,



Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                               05/15/2023
   -   Should $QQQ’s VoEx spike downwards or start diverging, the timeframe for this
       downside shortens,
   -   ExVoEx is more suggestive of near-term downside,
   -   Hedging environments are not supportive in a $-/IV+ and the influence
       distributions are predominately negative; unless IV drops enough to move the
       indexes into gamma neutrality, upside will be worked against via hedging; with the
       market in a relatively unstable state, this may have exaggerated effects,
   -   MWGSC is creeping north
   -   GTM is bullish but for how long?
So, overall, I am still convinced of a near-term retraction and continuation of the normal
cycle. I would be more emboldened in saying it is starting next week but $QQQ’s VoEx
hasn’t given the “downside” signal quite just yet – and that is making me slightly hesitant.
That means, I will expect a flat/down week unless IV drops significantly, in which case, I
will position to capture some very quick gains.
Dashboard?
Dashboard!
After a few more months than anticipated, the new dashboard and all of its main
functionalities are completed! That means migration is planned for Friday 05/27! From
now until then I will be sending out everyone’s username and passwords along with the
new URL.
What are the main changes to the dashboard? I will include a patch note in next week’s
weekly email but here are some highlights:
   1) Around 50% faster; able to handle larger data requests / loads easier;
   2) Able to handle the growing user base
   3) More secure;
   4) Data is shared more efficiently;
   5) The “foundations” have been re-worked to allow for future expansions that
      require/utilize:
         a. API access
         b. Live data feeds
         c. Notifications/alerts
         d. Intra-day data updating
It should be noted that for now the UI is predominately the same, however I am planning
on having a robust UI overhaul planned for June 5th . So if you have any suggestions/ideas,
please let me know!
Well, that’s all I have for you guys this week,
Happy trading! - Justin

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                  05/15/2023
