                                    Weekly Chat 07/31/2023


                                           Main Points


       -   VoEx on $SPY and $QQQ demonstrate BUPO.
       -   Hedging environments are remarkably unchanged.
       -   DLP activity is positive but uninspiring.
       -   MWGSC-data suggest minimal threat for a large expansion in gamma squeezes.
       -   VoEx Variance suggests the market is “cooling off” more than “imploding”.
       -   LDPM & LDPM-LL suggest the market’s recent bullish performance is organic.



                                            SUMMARY



           VoEx for both $SPY and $QQQ demonstrate BUPO – highlighting the
           persistently elevated risk of market downside in an overall bullish
           environment.

           The hedging environments are largely unchanged from the prior weeks
           with little-to-no purchasing support in the $-/IV+ quadrants, local selling
           pressure, and a gamma-neutral zone that extends $+/IV-. Influence
           distributions foretell of most-prominent probability of red performance.

           DLPs are beginning to open up again ahead of next week but there is still
           a rather moot tone to the performance.

           MWGS-data showed a slight increase in the number of gamma squeezes
           but this seems to be cooling off as well as GTM heads back into negative
           territory.

           Per 𝑉𝑉 2 , the market is in a period of “overheating” and this overheating does
           seem to be collapsing ( 𝑉𝑉 2 is moving down) but with the new data-view, it
           seems this collapse is mostly associated with VoExes moving back into
           stability, rather than collapsing down into the P.Z.

           A new tool (yet unnamed) which combines LDPM and LDPM-LL suggests
           that the most recent bullish performance is organic and that this organic
           bullish performance has been supported by market liquidity as recently as
           03/2023. Providing more evidence of a robust bullish market.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                           07/31/2023
                                              DETAILS




Heyo!

Last week, we left off with predominantly bearish-leaning ideologies but seeing how $SPY moved
up 1.05% while $QQQ moved a casual 2.09% this week, it would seem our fears were relatively
misplaced.

Thus, for this week, let’s quickly review the progress of the data throughout last week, take a peek
at what may lay in store for us a head, and then, as usual, wave our hands around with some new
data.

Ayo

Movement throughout the market can be visualized with $SPY and $QQQ’s heatmaps below:




Not the most direct routes towards the overall green movement throughout the week, with a good
amount of time spent loopdy-looping through selling pressure.

Despite the turbulence on the surface, as the week progressed, very little changed below the
surface:

   •    DLP activity remained mostly unchanged (until Friday),
   •    GTM maintained its positive prints as it declined towards negative territory; it’s movement
        northward seems to have been insufficient to pull GTM-ema into positive territory,
   •    MWGS-counts remained largely steady,
   •    VoExes remained largely complacent (as we will see below), and
   •    Hedging environments remained largely in-tact.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         07/31/2023
In other-words, I could imagine MacBeth describing this week as “sound and fury, signifying
nothing” 1.

But since MacBeth is both fictional and pre-dates the stock market, let’s make sure his insights
aren’t too biased.

Starting as usual with VoEx, we see: nothing really.

$SPY and $QQQ’s VoEx have predominately resumed their position inside of the Inhibition Zone.



                                                                         With $QQQ responding quite
                                                                         dramatically to Friday’s 1.8%
                                                                         increase in price – some may
                                                                         even say it spiked 2.

                                                                         This places us squarely in BUPO
                                                                         with continued emphasis on the
                                                                         idea that “things are unstable”.




The benefit of VoEx’s behavior is that this places us back in BUPO.

The downside of VoEx’s behavior is that this places us back in BUPO.

This means that we have to keep an eye out on the pesky signs that BUPO may be ending; a task
that is provoking empathy for Sisyphus.

Perhaps I shouldn’t
complain too much
– for at least now
$SPY and $QQQ’s
VoExes       are    in
agreement. So, with
our BUPO 3 outlooks
in order, let’s take a
peek at the hedging
environments.




1
  My nickname in highschool.
2
  That someone would be the Market Scan as $QQQ registered as having a VoEx Spike on Friday (2023-07-28).
3
  Bullish-until-proven-otherwise.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                  07/31/2023
Much-the-same as last week: local selling pressure, with little-to-no purchasing support in the
event of a $- week, but with a gamma neutral zone extending into the $+/IV- quadrant.

The similarities also extend to the influence distributions, wherein we see a predominantly soft-
bearish outlook.

Moving towards some other data, we see our DLP friends may have also caught a bit of the “BUPO
bug” as Thursday and Friday saw a slight up-tick in puts being sold:




Although it is worth mentioning still that this newfound growth is still relatively … quaint. Does it
do enough to stir much confidence for you?

For me? Not so much. But it is wroth keeping in mind that it does seem someone, somewhere is
interested in profiting from either a price increase or a drop in IV.

A partial-bullish outlook may also be supported by the MWGS-data.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          07/31/2023
With GTM returning back into
negative territory, and a GTM-
ema that never breeched into
the positive arena, it would
seem the only hiccup to an
overall bullish data print is the
slight increase in gamma
squeezes seen over the week
(current: 924 vs. 5-day average
of 899, and 10-day average of
901).

So, it would seem that things
are looking pretty bullish!

   •   VoEx is BUPO again,
   •   Hedging environments
       are largely the same as
       they have been,
   •   DLPs are opening up,
   •   MWGS-data is looking
       bullish.




Let’s see if we can’t find anything to dissuade us from marching on in a bullish fashion.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        07/31/2023
Moving towards VoEx Variance, there are signs that the market is still over-heating but VoEx
Variance is continuing its collapse we noted previously:




Ordinarily, this would leave the data analysis with a particularly strong sense of “doom”, as we’ve
seen from the historical data that this is typically followed by market corrections.

However, last week (or so), we broke up VoEx Variance into its constituent parts. The goal was to
help get a more robust showing of VoEx Variance behavior and the respective location of each
sector’s constituents’ VoEx location, all in one graph.

Let’s see what it shows us:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        07/31/2023
Oh - that’s pretty cool!

We do see that VoEx Variance is collapsing with the top panel showing the overall value of VoEx
Variance has started to shrink.

However – this view also offers us the vantage point of “where is everything collapsing to”.

With the original data, it was hard to parse this out: the idea was simply: VoEx Variance collapsing
is interpretable as the majority of VoExes moving out of the I.Z., and grouping up in the
Propagation Zone. This outlook was spurred by the evidence of such collapses pre-dating market
corrections.

The increased granularity provided by this VoEx Variance view, shows us that yes : VoEx Variance
is collapsing; but we can see that VoExes throughout the land are collapsing into stability !


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                         07/31/2023
In fact, there is still no data available from within the Propagation Zone to suggest that there is a
large and sudden movement from I.Z. → P.Z.

Could it be that the market’s overheating is cooling off in a non-catastrophic way?

In a sense: could we be fully BUPO until we start seeing data prints pop up in the Propagation
Zone?

Questions for the ages4 but it does stand to reason: if no VoExes are starting to collect inside of
or near the Propagation Zone while VoEx Variance is collapsing – is there any reason to have a
bearish outlook?
Naturally the answer is yes: duh. An overheating market is an unstable market; there are plenty of
examples of a rapidly appreciating market that doesn’t provoke instability (the latter-half of 2021
and the whole of 2022, as readily apparent examples). Thus, it seems reasonable that a healthy
dose of precaution should exist, but the data do seem to be clearing up.

Whereas before we anticipated the collapse of VoEx Variance would bring the market into correct-
mode (since we assumed that collapsing from the I.Z. would invariably lead to market-wide VoEx
collection into the P.Z., as it did in 2018, 2020, and 2022), these new data show us that this may
not be the case. VoExes across the market are collecting (variance is dropping) but they seem to
be doing so at the I.Z. / Stability border – rather than migrating towards the Propagation Zone.
This suggests that perhaps the market is cooling off rather than looking to take a plunge into the
cold depths of the P.Z.

This outlook will change, of course, should data start to emerge from within the Propagation
Zone.

With VoEx Variance out-of-the-way, let’s wave our arms around even harder at some fun new data!

Remember LDPM?

Remember LDPM-LL5?

Well. What if we thew caution to the wind and combined the two?

The idea is simple: what if we could capture times when an LDPM crossover is expected to be
reversed and when an LDPM crossover is expected to be maintained? To quote myself from the
upcoming LDPM Primer revision:




4
  I am actually leaning towards this outlook as the data continue to evolve. Why shouldn’t the market be able to
experience a “soft landing” of sorts?
5
  Weekly Chats 2023-07-10 & 2023-07-17.

Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                      07/31/2023
          Practically, of what use is it to be able to visualize which party (the bid or the ask) is eager in a
          given situation? Pragmatically, it boils down to a simple concept: when an LDPM crossover
          occurs, there are two main reasons:
                1) Liquidity is no longer supportive of the current price-action (we’ll call these organic
                   crossovers [OCOs]), or
                2) An overly eager party is pushing the price against the current schema (we’ll call these
                   eager crossovers [ECOs].
                                                                   …
          Why should we care about if price is being moved organically or by an eager party? Well, the
          benefit is that we can see OCOs are maintained whereas ECOs are rejected.
                                                                   …
          Make sense?

          K let’s move on then 6.

          The idea is that what if we can harness LDPM-LL’s direct view of liquidity against LDPM’s
          directional insights, we can start to visualize and anticipate when an LDPM crossover attempt will
          be successful (supported by the current liquidity environment; or an OCO and is expected to be
          maintained) or unsuccessful and revert back (due to the crossover being unsupported by the
          current liquidity environment; the crossover is an ECO and expected to revert).

          With this schema, there are four main configurations:

LDPM Crossover        LDPM-LL                Interpretation              Description                     Eager       Expected Price
Type                  Outlook                                                                            Party       Action


Bullish               Bullish                Organic Crossover &         Strong Bullish                  None        Sustained bullish
                                             Support                                                                 performance

Bullish               Bearish                Eager Crossover             Weak Bullish                    Bid         Un-sustained
                                             without support                                                         bullish
                                                                                                                     performance

Bearish               Bearish                Organic Crossover &         Strong Bearish                  None        Sustained
                                             Support                                                                 bearish
                                                                                                                     performance

Bearish               Bullish                Eager Crossover             Weak Bearish                    Ask         Un-sustained
                                             without support                                                         bearish
                                                                                                                     performance




          6
              Don’t worry – there’s a whole new primer incoming along with these new metrics and data.

          Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                                        07/31/2023
  The idea is that if a crossover event occurs, but the LDPM-LL view does not support the crossover
  (rows #2 & #4), then the market’s organic bid/ask will naturally revert back from the overly-eager
  price movement.

  This will be expanded upon more in the LDPM Primer but the idea is: when there is an eager party
  in the market: beware of reversion.

  Additionally, if things are chugging along in a quite bullish fashion, if we can see signs that this is
  due to some “overly eager” party, then perhaps are viewpoint of a “overheating but organically
  cooling off” market isn’t quite right; whereas if there are no signs of any over-eager participants,
  then perhaps this is an organically accelerating market that can be expected to “cool off” without
  crashing us into the stone ages!

  So, let’s quick check to see if there are any eager parties in the market!

  To do so, let’s just take LDPM (LDPM-55) and LDPM-LL, and categorize each day as belonging to
  one of the four groups above:



Data Print                                Expected Price Action          Price Point Color

Strong Bullish                        Sustained bullish performance                             Dark Green

Weak Bullish                         Un-sustained bullish performance                           Light Green

Strong Bearish                        Sustained bearish performance                                    Red

Weak Bearish                        Un-sustained bearish performance                                Orange




  Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                             07/31/2023
Let’s graph $SPY:




Ohhh - that’s pretty nifty!

A few things to note besides my drawing skills:

    1) Things are green! and have been for awhile
    2) Testing an LDPM crossover would occur at ~433 (~ -5.0%).

Interestingly, we can also see that the last LDPM Crossover test back in ~03/2023 produced
“weak bearish” data prints – which, as it happens, was true! The market’s liquidity was sufficient
to starve-off any significant downside! And we can see it plain-as-day!

Let’s check out $QQQ:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                       07/31/2023
Much the same!

Taking some arm-waving liberties, it would seem that for now, a nascent idea of “overheating but
cooling off” seems to be springing into existence:

   •   VoEx is BUPO on $SPY and $QQQ,
   •   This overheating is seen market-wide via VoEx Variance,
   •   However: VoEx Variance suggests that as it begins its collapse, its doing so into stability
       not into the P.Z. (there is no data to be found in the P.Z. panel!),
   •   and now, LDPM and LDPM-LL suggest that tings are going up pretty organically.

So, overall, it would seem that:

   1) Long-term outlook: bullish.
   2) Medium-term: increased risk of a correct however the data are suggesting that this
      correction may be side-stepped as VoEx Variance is cooling off into stability, rather than
      P.Z. Additionally, LDPM & LDPM-LL suggest organic bullish performance with recent
      evidence of liquidity supporting $SPY (03/2023) during the last dip.
   3) Short-term: still an increased risk of downside (due to VoEx being in I.Z.) while in an overall
      BUPO environment but it seems increasingly unlikely that this downside should propagate
      into anything much more significant than a 5% decline, should it manifest.

In terms of monitoring the short-term to get a leg-up on the downside, should it manifest, the
same signs as usual:

   1) Sudden VoEx Spiking into P.Z. on $SPY and $QQQ


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                          07/31/2023
   2) Sudden increase in MWGSC/GTM

This short-term “risk-on” environment precludes any short-term long positions for me, but it I am
still confident in adding into my medium and long-term positions as bullish positions.

In the short-term, I will probably just ride (with short-timeframes and low cost-basis) the BUPO
and should it look as though the market is starting to test LDPM-55 at ~$430 (for $SPY), I will try
to capture some quick short gains on the way down with a mind to “buy the dip”, unless the data
showcase any spectacular changes to the foundations.

That’s all I have for you guys this week!



Happy trading,



Justin



P.S. : There’s some more fun graphs on the next page!




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                                                        07/31/2023
Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat   07/31/2023
Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat   07/31/2023
Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat   07/31/2023
