                                 Weekly Chat 2025-03-31


                                        Main Points



    -   VoEx remains within the Propagation Zone while VoEx-Daily moves to finish its VoEx
        Spike.
    -   Hedging environments for $SPY and $QQQ are in gamma-squeeze orientations with
        local and immediate selling pressure.
    -   Put-selling has ceased for $SPY and $QQQ.
    -   MWGS data showcase growing growth-velocities and counts; GTM has become just-
        positive.
    -   VoEx Variance distribution graphs show a flattening distribution that is migrating
        towards the P.Z..
    -   LDPM/LDPS showcase a potential 1% followed by 4% downside.

                                        SUMMARY



          VoEx-daily spiked downwards in the latter half of the week, bringing the
          end to the current VoEx-spike, and heralding continued downside. VoEx
          itself remains well situated within the P.Z.

          The gamma-hedging environments show a gamma-squeeze
          configuration with both $SPY and $QQQ; both are resting just shy of
          purchasing support and are surrounded by selling pressure.

          Put-selling has ceased on both $SPY and $QQQ; this suggests an influx of
          de-leveraging may be brewing; something to consider in particular with
          $QQQ, who has demonstrated a more persistent DLP growth over $SPY.

          MWGS data showcase growing counts, growth-rate, and acceleration for
          gamma-squeezes, which brings with it downside anticiaptions.

          Investigations into the distribution and behavior of VoExes via the VoEx
          Variance distribution graphs suggest the market is in current state of
          migration from relative stability to relative less stability. These data
          encompass the entire market in scope.

          LDPM and LDPS suggest downside to 1% and then perhaps down another
          4% before any real identifiable organic bid is located.

          Thus, downside looks imminent, promising and substantial.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat        for the week of             2025-03-31 to 2025-04-04
                                              DETAILS




Hello everyone!
Last week, we left off with lofty notions of a bull-trap galore followed by reasonable downside.
This week, coincidentally, started off with lofty notions of a bull-trap galore that was followed by
reasonable downside!
In nerd terms, this means week-over-week, $SPY moved 2.47% to the downside, and $QQQ moved
4.42% to the downside! The good and gooder news is that these changes are significant enough
to warrant busting out our handy-dandy EPR table, and the even more gooder news is that we
don’t have to worry about T+4 vs. T+5, as the week supplied us its low point at the end of the
week, for our convenience.

 Symbol              T+5 Anticipated T + 5 Realized          T + 5 Ratio         T+5 %-magnitude
                     Move (±%)       Move (%)                (Real / Ant.)       Dif.

 $SPY                  1.91                2.47                1.29               25.57

 $QQQ                  2.48                4.42                1.78               56.23



These supra-EPRA values are actually not that bad! We’ve definitely seen bigger greater-than-EPR
moves; nonetheless, a week ending on 1.29x and 1.78x for $SPY and $QQQ, respectively, does
provoke some discussion on the spectre of mean reversion, but, truth be told, I’m not quite sure
if these values warrant any direct concern.
In fact, just in looking at our (incredibly low sample size of ) weekly chats, we can see that the
week of 2025-03-10 to 2025-03-14 saw 𝑇𝑇4 → 𝑇𝑇5 intra-week mean-reversion movements (from
Thursday to Friday (on $QQQ)) of 1.85𝑥𝑥 → 1.57𝑥𝑥, and the week before that, 1.80𝑥𝑥 → 1.32𝑥𝑥, and the
week before that 2.55𝑥𝑥 → 1.58𝑥𝑥. This puts our current moves of 1.78𝑥𝑥 on $QQQ and 1.29𝑥𝑥 on
$SPY as contenders for initiation into the mean reversionary provocateurs guild but their success
may depend on how we find the data ahead of us as they are not the most apt applications in and
of themselves. Enough talking, some pictures:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of               2025-03-31 to 2025-04-04
An interesting showing of anticipation! The early part of the week saw a bounce without enough
zeal to land safely (and supportively) into gamma neutrality. The result was a pole-vault up and
over the boundary zone and back towards downside gamma neutrality.
With the past out of the way, let’s step into the future and see what we may divine!

Daily Dutiful Divining Doth Deӧbfuscate
Starting as usual with VoEx, we see:




VoEx for both $SPY and $QQQ reside firmly within the P.Z., and thus, denote a long-term bearish
outlook. VoEx-daily has indeed spiked with the latter half of the week brining VoEx back towards
the P.Z.; but, whereas it would have been preferrable had VoEx-daily spiked back down into the
P.Z. for both $SPY and $QQQ (and thus, identify the “peak” [as it were]), we see that for $SPY
didn’t do that! How frustratingly neutral of it; stopping just-short of almost-half-way through. So
close. Although this is not ideal, for now it does little to alter our anticipations other than to
augment our obligatorily-observed objects list.
Overall, the overall shape and behavior suggests continued movement back into the P.Z.,
thereupon confirming the VoEx-Spike and resumption of downside to come.
How is the hedging environment poised to handle such possibilities?




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat            for the week of              2025-03-31 to 2025-04-04
                                                 ==

               Now is a good time to say that the hedging heatmaps have been fixed. 1.
                                                 ==
Below, we see that they are, well, not well-poised to support a continued bounce:




Both look to have unfortunate situations.
$SPY shows immediate and local selling pressure while $QQQ also demonstrates immediate and
local selling pressure. To $QQQ’s benefit (should one wish to provide a bullish one), we can see
that it is resting just so on a little plateau of purchasing support. We wish it the best.
In the off-chance it fails to support the weight of the entire index, the likely outcome is rapid
movement towards gamma neutrality in the lower-right of the graph.

Nonetheless, one would be remiss if they didn’t mention, with equal vigor(-ish), that a ramp of
purchasing support does exist in the local and immediate vicinity as well, just briefly out of reach
for both indexes. We wish it the best.
So, with sights set downwards, let’s take a moment to peer upwards to our financial overlords to
see if they are preparing for market-go-upsies or market-go-downsies:




Downsies.

1
    See Patch Notes 2025-03-31


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of             2025-03-31 to 2025-04-04
DLP activity has ceased on $SPY towards week’s end and $QQQ’s short-term (5-day) behavior
has collapsed as well. Perhaps this will see the start of the decline of the long-term growth we
noted.
How particularly not well-timed for them to do that! (For the bulls at least).
But, money works in mysterious ways so let’s move on before we start contemplating free will.
Moving onwards, we encounter the Market-Wide Gamma Squeeze (MWGS) data, which
showcases some renewed vigor in all metrics.
                                       Growth (left; light blue line) showcases, well, growth. So
                                       much growth, in fact, that it is about 4% on the number scale
                                       for month-over-month, and 22% (on the same scale) for
                                       week-over-week!
                                       Quite a growth spurt indeed.
                                       On the bottom graph (bottom) we see GTM is also
                                       experiencing a growth spurt. Admittedly with less oomph,
                                       as it suggests an end to the aforementioned growth spurt,
                                       but for now, something to monitor.

                                       These data are nice, but in an effort to discredit past me in
                                       favor of present me, let’s take a peek at the improved data!
                                       You’ll remember from last week that there was some
                                       discussion on an updated version of the growth curves.
                                       Below we see the fresh squiggles of such labors:



The blue line is $SPY, and the brown line is the `Predictive Count Curve` (PCC): this shows us a
combination of where the count is and where it is going (it’s a fun hybrid that both is where it is
going and incorporates a vector field so that it also points to where its going. The relative ratio of
going to pointing is effective the growth to future-growth ratio). The purple line is the `Predictive
Growth Curve` (PGC); the idea is similar: when moving positively, its telling us “the velocity of is
likely going to increase, thus, counts and growth will start to increase”, when it is moving
negatively, it’s the opposite. Check it out:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2025-03-31 to 2025-04-04
These data echo the original data. The PCC tells us that counts are relatively high (above the
2024-04 counts!) and the overall trajectory is positive as well, suggesting continued movement
towards an increase in count. The PGC has spiked above zero, telling us that the growth-velocity
is expected to start increasing (and that it already has been since its above zero!). In combination
this paints a picture of both an increase in GS counts but also an increase in the velocity GS-
creation!
That is a bearish future painted by the GS data, and a rocky foundation for our market to find itself
with!
Moving onwards, we awkwardly encounter a by-gone section of research from last week that
someone forgot to put into the Weekly Chat, the VoEx Variance distributions! These, if you’ll
remember, are the market-wide VoEx data that show the distribution of said VoExes throughout
said market. These data traditionally helped to identify large-scale shifts in market behavior. But,
they can be a bit tricky to interpret sometimes, so in pursuit to make it more simply, I made it
trickier! Check it out.
I cooked up more data but this time with the mind to see if there was an easy way to capture the
change in the distributions (general behavior, trends, patterns, etc.) while also still being able to
see a wide variety of said distribution. The hope is that we can start to contextualize how VoExs
move throughout the market so we can put together a framework for where we are in the market.
Below are the products of those attempts.
The first pattern to highlight is one we’ve already discussed, and it’s the general movement of the
distribution graphs. Focusing in on this will help identify the general forest we find ourelves in, so
let’s start there.
The general cycle seems to be something like this:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2025-03-31 to 2025-04-04
That is, supposing a market starts in a overall bullish-distribution (the distributions mean/median
are in Stability and the curve is “leaning” to the right). In this general configuration the market is
quite bullish. Foundational changes seem to be first present via a widening out and flattening of
the curve. Although this isn’t inherently bearish in and of itself, it does show that there are parts
of the market that are starting to “slide” from underneath and towards the P.Z..

It's worth noting that a precursor to step 2 (i.e. a sign that thing are progressing around the cycle)
is the appearance of large tail densities. Such data would indicate large-scale market migration
towards the P.Z., and thus, anticipated downside. A practical interpretation of step 1 would be
“things are bullish but becoming less so”.
Should this process continue, the distributions start gathering and populating within the P.Z.,
moving and shifting the curve to the left. This becomes a Bearish Distribution, which is effectively
a “Fully Bearish” market (such as in 2022! See below). In this configuration the market is well
inundated with VoExes within the P.Z. and so the immediate and future outlooks are bearish.
From there the cycle repeats but inverted; for signs of a brighter future, the data should show a
widening and flattening out of the distributions with the appearance of right-tail densities.

Check out the graph below with the data from 2021 to 2023 with the general steps that are
observed highlighted.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat             for the week of               2025-03-31 to 2025-04-04
With this view, the “breathing” of VoEx becomes (hopefully) more apparent (I definitely
recommend checking out the daily or weekly view of SPX and checking future price action from
these data!). It seems VoEx moves back and forth like some kind of slug; slowly spreading out as
it prepares to move, and then rapidly collecting itself during a period of rapid-coalescence, only
to rise, and slowly melt back down again and start its migration towards stability.




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat           for the week of              2025-03-31 to 2025-04-04
How does this help us in the present here today? Well, let’s check on the data to see if we can find
out where in the cycle we might be! To do this, let’s look at more recent data. These data were
cooked up in the same manner but with VoEx (not VoEx-daily; I wanted something a tad more
~robust!), let’s take a look:




Pretty nifty2!
Of note, notice that from 2024-09 to 2024-11 a slow “flattening” occurred within the data, but with
2024-11 demonstrating quite the presence of right-wards tails; these tails diminished within 2024-
12, causing the distribution complex to narrow and significantly and collect and appear to start
spreading into the P.Z.! With this showing, let’s mark 2024-12 as a stage 1 conversion: going form
a strictly bullish distribution configuration to starting to migrate out therefrom.
The next step would be step 2, after the flattening of the curves, they should start to collect within
the Propagation Zone; this would be the start of the “bearish” interpretations of the data. This can
be found within 2025-02! Note the flattening and migration leftwards as February progressed,
ultimately leading us to 2024-03, which is showcasing continued flattening and the presence of
left-ward tails; a classic showing!




2
  Each line is a single day, and they are color-coded. The colors that are most-similar to the left-ward graph (for
instance, if investigating the 2024-06 plot, the left-ward graph would be 2024-05) are further dated than those which
are more similar to the colors of the right-ward graph.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                   for the week of                    2025-03-31 to 2025-04-04
This suggests that for now, the market is in its “bearish becoming” phase of transition (and early
within it as well!). This provides an expectation of continue downside until there is evidence that
VoExes are ready to transition through step 3 towards bullishness.
But for now, the data seem clear: VoExes are continuing to flatten and move towards the P.Z.,
rather than away from it!
Do the VoEx-Daily values suggest the same?




Within these data the interpretation is much the same! Continued flattening due to migration towards
the left!
This is pretty bearish! The next stage that we should see is a collection of the distributions within the P.Z.,
and then the next step should be flattening out, which we will take as our first signal that the bottom has
been reached!
And so, with our sights firmly set downwards, let’s take a peek at LDPM/LDPS to see what some
reasonable anticipations might be.
First up is SPX on the 987 with LDPS set to balanced3:




3
 I mainly use `Conservative` but since we are in the midst of downside, I figured picking up some extra sensitivity (in
case any sudden changes in outlook start manifesting) but be useful here, and so I switched to `Balanced`.


Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                    for the week of                    2025-03-31 to 2025-04-04
We can see persistent flow to bid with bearish liquidity as SPX looks set to re-test LDPM-L1 (LDPM-987).
This suggests at least another 1.5% decline for another direct test of the organic level there. To see where
price will go from there, we have to zoom out to the weekly.




From this view, we can see price clinging to LDPM-L5 as it makes its breakthrough with bearish liquidity;
should the current stalactite-close debase, it will find support at $5,370-ish, which sits currently about 4%
down.

Moving to ES (on the weekly since on the 987 there is no floor!) we find support, yes, but a retreating one:




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat                for the week of                 2025-03-31 to 2025-04-04
As price falls, LDPM looks poised to transition from bid to ask (such as what the eager parties have already
done, along with LDPM-L1!; the first bastion of organic bid). Should such a conversion be underway (and
eventually become underwent), a halt to the downside will be hard to identify until the eager parties start
converting from eager asks to eager bid (which, currently, none are doing!).

So, taken together, these data paint extraӧrdinary bearish prints. VoEx is within the P.Z. while VoEx-daily
looks to be finishing a VoEx Spike; hedging environments find themselves inundated in a gamma-squeeze
configuration with local and immediate selling pressure; DLP activity has ceased; MWGS data showcase a
growing anticipation for GS growth; VoEx Variance distribution investigations suggest the market is in the
“Flattening and migration” phase of things, which suggests downside is just now “getting started”; and
LDPM and LDPS showcase bearish liquidity on SPX and ES with near-by organic bids located at about 4%
down.
An exciting market!

Happy Trading,



Justin




Deep Dive Stocks – Weekly Chat               for the week of                 2025-03-31 to 2025-04-04
